 spidroins are large proteins with an extension of 250-350 kDa, with an average of 3500 amino acids. a polymeric organization, mostly based on highly homogenized tandem repeats. 100 tandem copies of 30 to 40 amino acids which repeat sequence and they represent more than 90% of the protein sequence. glycine residues are the most abundant amino acids in these proteins. in blocks of six to fourteen units that form β-sheets. blocks can stack to create crystalline structures in the fiber, linking different protein molecules together. present in different motifs, such as GGX and GPGXX (where X = A, L, Q, or Y), that also have specific secondary structures (310-helix and β-spiral, respectively). Glycine-rich regions are more amorphous and contribute to extensibility and flexibility. the differences observed between spidroin 1 and spidroin 2 (the most important major ampullate spidroins) are the proline content, which is very low in the first one but significant in the second one, and the motifs. Motif (GGX)n is characteristic in spidroin 1, while GPG and QQ are typical in spidroin 2. the main proteins in spider silk. of spider silk contain different spidroins, all of which are members of a single protein family. -researched type of spidroins are the major ampullate silk proteins (MaSp) used in the construction of dragline silk, the strongest type of spider silk. fiber was originally thought to be made up of two types of spidroins, spidroin-1 (MaSp1) and spidroin-2 (MaSp2) however recent transcriptomic analysis of over 1000 spider species has revealed multiple spidroins are expressed making it much more complex. other hand, spidroins have non-repetitive amino (N) and carboxyl (C) terminal domains of approximately 150 and 100 amino acids respectively. N- and C-terminal domains share little resemblance, except that they are both rich in serine and both are largely amphipathic α-helical secondary structures. are conserved not only between spidroin 1 and 2, but also among many silk types and spider species. show the N- and C-terminal domains contribute to fiber assembly. The C-terminal domain is involved in the organized transition from a soluble spidroin solution to an insoluble fiber during spinning. N-terminal domain, there are signal peptides which regulate spidroin secretion from silk gland cells. present in other spider silk types are also occasionally referred to as spidroin. tubuliform silk protein (TuSP), flagelliform silk protein , minor ampullate silk proteins (MiSp; K4MTL7), aciniform silk protein (AcSP), pyriform silk protein (PySp) and aggregate silk glue (ASG2/AgSp). silk proteins along with MaSP show some level of homology to each other, in protein domains, repeats, and in promoters, but also have their own unique features and variations on these parts to fulfill their different functions. point at a common origin of proteins found in all these different types of silks. mechanical properties of spider silk, including its tensile strength and extensibility, are primarily governed by the repeat regions of the proteins that constitute the fiber, the major ampullate spidroins (MaSps). However, establishing correlations between mechanical characteristics and repeat sequences remains challenging due to the intricate sequence–structure–function relationships of MaSps and the limited availability of annotated datasets. study, we present a novel computational framework for designing MaSp repeat sequences with customizable mechanical properties. this, we developed a lightweight GPT-based generative model by distilling the pre-trained ProtGPT2 protein language model. model was subjected to multi-level fine-tuning using curated subsets of the dataset. Specifically, we adapted the model for MaSp repeat generation using 6,000 MaSp repeat sequences and further refined it via cross-validation on 592 repeats associated with experimentally determined fiber-level mechanical properties. generates biologically plausible MaSp repeat regions tailored to specific mechanical properties, while also predicting those properties for given sequences. sequence-level analysis, assessing physicochemical attributes, the expected distribution of key motifs, and secondary structure compositions. A correlation study using BLAST on the dataset and a test set of MaSp repeats with known mechanical properties further confirmed the predictive accuracy of the model. advances the rational design of spider silk-inspired biomaterials, offering a versatile tool for engineering protein sequences with tailored mechanical attributes. structure of MaSps comprises three primary regions: the globularly folded N-terminal and C-terminal domains, which are flanking the repetitive core region. core region is believed to be the main contributor to the fiber mechanical properties, and in MaSps, this region is generally made up of poly- that are alternated with Gly-rich regions. polymerized form, in the fiber, the poly- are predominantly arranged in nano-sized β-sheet crystals structures that contribute to the tensile strength of the silk fiber. -Ala-β-sheet crystals are embedded in an amorphous matrix formed by the Gly-rich repeats, which is related to the extensibility of the fiber. referred to as amorphous, the Gly-rich repeats also form specific conformations like 3-1-helices, β-turns and β-spirals. ampullate silk fibers from different spider species display large variability in mechanical properties. the source of this large variability, al. . undertook the significant challenge of sequencing the transcriptome of 1098 species and simultaneously determining the mechanical properties of major ampullate silks from 446 of these species. showed that there is a large interspecies difference in terms of mechanical properties. , the tensile strength of the major ampullate silks varies between 0.17 and 3.3 GPa. However, strong correlations between the amino acid sequence motifs in the repeat regions of the MaSps and the fiber mechanical properties could not be found. the model’s effectiveness, we employed two distinct datasets: a test set of 185 instances sampled through cross-validation from the original 592-instance dataset to assess self-consistency, and a BLAST set curated to determine sequence novelty against a broader protein sequence database. followed a comprehensive two-level analysis approach. sequence level, we analyzed key properties including molecular weight, instability index, isoelectric point, and the distribution of essential motifs (GGX, poly-Ala, YGQGG, and SV). validation, we employed a secondary structure prediction tool to verify the composition of α-helices, β-strands, and random coils characteristic of MaSps. silk is widely recognized as a benchmark for high-performance biomaterials due to its unique combination of tensile strength, extensibility, and toughness. is primarily composed of major ampullate spidroins (MaSps), and to date, five distinct MaSp classes (MaSp1–MaSp5) have been identified. a MaSp to a specific class is typically based on clustering of its terminal domains in phylogenetic analyses and the presence of characteristic amino acid motifs within the repeat region. A typical MaSp sequence comprises three main components: an N-terminal domain, a repetitive core region, and a C-terminal domain, as illustrated in Figure 1. domains are highly conserved and shared between different spidroins that give rise to fibers of very diverse mechanical properties. suggests that terminal domains are primarily involved in spidroin storage and polymerization rather than in determining fiber mechanics. Both N- and C-terminal domains have been extensively characterized in prior work. best of our knowledge, direct interactions between terminal domains and the repeat region have not been reported. Moreover, evidence from the literature consistently supports the conclusion that the mechanical properties of spider silk fibers are governed predominantly by the repetitive core domains of the spidroins. Consequently, our design strategy focuses exclusively on the repeat region, targeting the sequence elements most directly responsible for material performance. do not exclude the possibility of terminal–repeat interactions, our methodological emphasis remains on the core motifs most relevant to mechanical function. spidroin sequences in the database have revealed several recurring amino acid motifs within the repeat regions of MaSps. include poly-Ala, GGX, YGQGG, SV, GPGXX, QQ, and AGQG. However, attempts to correlate individual motif occurrences with fiber mechanical properties have yielded weak or no relationships, with coefficients generally below 0.6. few exceptions are the YGQGG motif, which shows a positive association with toughness, and the SV motif, which is negatively correlated with this parameter. occurring motifs such as poly-Ala, GGX, QQ, and AGQG do not show strong individual correlations with fiber mechanics. underscore the complexity of the sequence–function relationship in MaSps, which likely arises from synergistic interactions among multiple motifs rather than from the presence of any single motif. the relationship between protein sequence and mechanical properties have primarily relied on sequence analysis and molecular simulations. , highlighted the importance of GGX and poly- in achieving spider silk’s extensibility and tensile properties. prediction tools like PSIPRED have been widely used to predict α-helices, β-strands and random coil arrangements,, which are critical for understanding silk mechanics. However, these approaches are often retrospective and do not enable forward design of sequences with desired properties. model mechanical properties using machine learning have shown promise. , al. utilized neural networks to predict silk’s mechanical properties based on amino acid composition. methods enhance understanding of sequence-property relationships, they lack the generative capability required for designing novel sequences. in hybrid AI techniques have shown promise in overcoming these limitations, particularly for engineering silk-like proteins with desired mechanical characteristics. Notably, al. introduced a generative modeling approach for spidroin sequence design, enabling the creation of synthetic spider silk proteins tailored to target mechanical properties. However, a key limitation of this approach is its lack of emphasis on MaSp repeat regions, which are the primary determinants of silk’s mechanical behavior. between MaSp motifs and mechanical properties in spider dragline silk offers critical insights into how specific protein sequence patterns influence silk performance. -throughput studies have quantified key mechanical metrics -including toughness, Young’s modulus, tensile strength, and strain at break - of dragline silk from various spider species, identifying correlations between motifs in the repetitive core region of MaSps and variations in these properties. such as poly-Ala (associated with β-sheet crystallization) and GGX (contributing to elastic β-turns) play a direct role in defining tensile strength, toughness, and extensibility. to these well-characterized motifs, recent analyses have identified emerging motifs like YGQGG, QQ, GPGXX, AGQG and SV, which may further modulate mechanical behavior. relationships is instrumental in the design of biomimetic silk materials with tailored mechanical properties. features include the count and coverage (motif size × count / sequence length) of the specified motifs. indicates that correlation values remain relatively low. strong correlations were observed, this visualization is still informative, demonstrating that individual motifs alone cannot fully explain the relationship between sequence variation and mechanical properties. the intricate and multi-factorial nature of silk mechanics, where the combined influence of multiple motifs and structural contexts collectively shapes the observed mechanical behavior. the total energy absorbed before failure. in dragline silk is associated with motifs that enhance tensile strength and/or extensibility. heatmap reveals that YGQGG count (+0.228) and coverage (+0.207) both show moderate positive correlations with toughness. Poly- also correlates positively with toughness, though slightly less strongly (+0.218). The AGQG coverage (-0.192) and SV count (-0.124) showed negative correlation with toughness . Young’s modulus represents the initial stiffness of silk fibers and is influenced by motifs that foster β-sheet crystallinity. , poly- correlates positively with Young’s modulus (+0.174). analysis, we also observed a positive impact of the count of YGQGG motif on Young’s modulus (+0.091), whereas the count of AGQG (-0.036) and SV (-0.139) motifs showed negative correlations. is the maximum stress that the silk fiber can withstand before failure. heatmap indicates that many of the same motifs influencing toughness also affect strength. The YGQGG motif count is positively correlated with tensile strength (+0.230) , making it one of the strongest sequence predictors of a stronger fiber in our analysis. Poly- (+0.140) and GPGXX coverage also positively correlate with tensile strength. break is the maximal elongation (expressed as a fraction of its original length) that the silk fiber can achieve before breaking. highlight AGQG coverage (–0.133) is the most striking correlation overall (and the only moderately strong negative value). in this row hover near zero, indicating minimal correlation. also show impact of QQ motif on strain at break. in this row hover near zero, indicating minimal or no correlation. fibers exhibit incredible mechanical properties, outperforming many synthetic polymers in toughness assays, and possess desirable properties for medical and other human applications. make dragline fibers popular subjects for biomimetics research. diversity of spiders presents both an opportunity for the development of new bioinspired materials and a challenge for the identification of fundamental design principles, as the mechanical properties of dragline fibers show both intraspecific and interspecific variations. regard, the stress–strain curves of draglines from different species have been shown to be effectively compared by the α* parameter, a value derived from maximum-supercontracted silk fibers. potential molecular mechanisms impacting α* values, here we analyze spider fibroin (spidroin) sequences of the widow () and the black and yellow garden spider (). serves as a primer for investigating the molecular properties of spidroins that underlie species-specific α* values. are that while overall motif composition was similar between species, certain motifs and higher level periodicities of glycine-rich region lengths showed variation, notably greater distances between poly-A motifs in A. aurantia sequences. to increased period lengths, A. aurantia spidroins tended to have an increased prevalence of charged and hydrophobic residues. may impact the number and strength of hydrogen bond networks within fibers, which have been implicated in conformational changes and formation of nanocrystals, contributing to the greater extensibility of A. aurantia draglines compared to those of L. hesperus. understand how spider silks achieve their extraordinary mechanical properties, genomic methods can provide insight into the molecular basis for spider silks. have been found to be largely composed of proteins belonging to the spidroin (spider fibroin) family. tend to be very long and consist of strongly conserved amino (N)- and carboxyl (C)-terminal regions flanking a highly repetitive central region. N- and C-terminal regions, the sequences of the highly repetitive central regions vary greatly across spidroin family members. of the repetitive regions of major ampullate spidroin (MaSp) sequences have identified amino acid motifs that are believed to confer structural and mechanical properties to MA silk fibers. , poly-alanine (poly-A) blocks within the repetitive regions have been demonstrated to assemble during silk extrusion, forming crystalline beta-sheets responsible for the fluid–solid transition required to spin the material. -A blocks are also thought to bolster the overall strength of silks . major component of the central repetitive region are large stretches enriched with glycine-rich motifs, such as GGX (where X = A, L, Q, Y, R), GXG (where X = L, R, Q, Y, P), and poly-GA, which form amorphous coiled structures, conferring extensibility to silks fibers . Combined, the occurrence of motifs, and their variability between species, can explain how spider silks have been readily and widely modified by evolutionary processes to serve a range of mechanical needs. However, the large size, highly repetitive nature, and sequence variability of one MaSp gene to the next have made attempts to quantify and compare their molecular complexity difficult. Recently, advances have been made in classifying the mechanical properties of dragline silks, by taking advantage of its unique ability to supercontract. dragline silks occurs when the fibers are exposed to water, triggering rapid shrinkage up to ~ 50% of their length, an attribute that allows the fibers to return to a base-level after load-bearing . , the supercontracted condition of dragline silks can be interpreted as a silk “ground state” that can be leveraged for making comparisons between MA silk fibers. Thus, by forcing MA silk fibers to achieve the maximum-supercontracted (MS) state before tensile testing, the intraspecific variability of silk mechanical properties , such as those arising from sheer force during the spinning process, can be reduced to a negligible level . Thus, it is possible to obtain a reliable quantitative classification of the stress–strain curves of MA fibers. utilizes a reference stress–strain curve (averaged from stress–strain curves of MS-MA fibers of the black and yellow garden spider, ), and comparing this reference curve with the stress–strain curve obtained by tensile testing MS-MA silk fibers of other spider species of interest. have shown that by displacing the true stress-true strain curves along the true strain axis (X axis), the curves concur at high values of strain. by which the curve of the fiber of interest is displaced along the strain axis defines the α* parameter and offers a simple procedure for the quantitative classification of the mechanical properties of MA silk fibers . ability to compare α* values between species, we are now poised for more targeted analyses of spidroins to better understand how differences in spidroin sequences relate to the structural and mechanical differences between silks. , such as hydrogen bond formation and disulfide bridges, impact the mechanical potential of dragline fibers, from protein–protein association during fiber formation to the shifting and formation of crystalline structures during load-bearing and supercontraction . of molecular interactions hinge largely upon the spatial relationships of participating amino acids. nature of spidroins presents a particularly interesting case, in which the participating residues and the motifs they reside in occur in higher level patterns that are often well conserved throughout the length of the protein sequence. of repeat structure among diverse spidroin types suggests that this configuration has functional significance to the general performance of silk. end, we focus on quantifying the prevalence and higher level periodicity of motifs in the repetitive regions noted for their potential role in influencing dragline fiber mechanical properties, namely GXG, GGX, poly-A, poly-GA, QQ, and SQ. important to note, however, that there are other factors that may also influence mechanical potential, such as post-translational modifications, overall spidroin composition of spun fibers, or fiber arrangement and microstructure. α* parameter is a recent advancement, few species exist where both α* value and full-length spidroin sequence data, necessary for analysis of the repetitive regions, are available. Here, we analyze the MaSp sequences of A. aurantia and ( widow), two species with different dragline α* values (0.00 and 0.53, respectively) and full-length spidroin sequence data, providing an in-depth look at the molecular variance in their sequences. α* value of the L. hesperus dragline indicates that the silk fiber undergoes less extension before transitioning to the stiffening phase than the A. aurantia dragline. analyses, we have identified several motifs of interest as possible candidates for explaining the differences in α* values of the MA silk fibers in both species, including some less-discussed motifs (e.g., QQ/SQ). identify other factors potentially contributing to these differences, particularly the overall periodicity of glycine-rich region length and the presence and periodicities of both charged and hydrophobic residues within spidroin sequences. (GXG, GGX, poly-A, poly-GA, QQ, SQ) were identified in spidroin sequences and for each motif, the total number of participating residues was counted. types were chosen for analyses as they have been noted in literature to be likely candidates for impacting the overall mechanical performance of spider dragline fibers . case of poly-A and poly-GA motifs, motifs were only counted if they occurred in stretches of at least three residues and four residues in length, respectively. was repeated for each motif, per spidroin, and total residue counts were recorded, as illustrated in Fig. 1. counts were then used to calculate the total percentage of the full-length sequence (including terminal regions) occupied by each motif. were then ranked based upon these raw percentages, from highest contribution to lowest. was repeated for each spidroin sequence. cases, such as GXG/GGX or poly-GA/poly-A, adjacent motifs overlapped leading to double-counting of participating residues (e.g., the underlined residues in GYGYGGAAAAA). for this, residues participating in multiple motifs simultaneously were identified ( 1). made by subtracting the total overlap from the less dominant motif, as determined by the ranking of raw percentages. case of overlapping with a poly-A motif all residues were attributed to the poly-A count, regardless of ranking, as the poly-A motif’s formation of crystalline β-sheets prompts the transition from protein solution to solid fiber characteristic of the spinning process. corrected values were then used to determine the overall percent contribution of each motif, relative to the entire sequence. Often, the same motif occurs consecutively without interruption within a repeat unit (e.g., GYGYGQGYGQG for the GXG motif). lengths of glycine-rich regions between poly-A motifs varied from spidroin to spidroin, suggesting that overall periodicity of motifs may be of importance. were divided into repeat segments between each poly-A motif. -rich segments, directly following each poly-A, were counted and their lengths were recorded. understand the molecular underpinnings of α*, a quantitative parameter for the classification of major ampullate silk mechanical properties, we analyzed the MaSp sequences of A. aurantia and L. hesperus . on the repetitive regions, which consist of iterated combinations of various amino acid motifs (e.g., poly-A, GXG, GGX). Considering MaSp1, both L. hesperus MaSp1 and A. aurantia MaSp1a were found to have similar values for overall motif coverage, 94.2% and 86.2% coverage, respectively (Fig. 2). A. aurantia MaSp1b, however, had a lower overall motif coverage, 71.1%. For MaSp2, again, the motifs accounted for well over half of both L. hesperus and A. aurantia sequences, ranging from 60.9% (A. aurantia MaSp2.1a) to 73.9% (L. hesperus MaSp2). , MaSp3a and MaSp3b of A. aurantia were not as dominated by motifs as MaSp1 and MaSp2 sequences, with overall motif coverages of just 46.6% and 49.6%, respectively. stereotypical motifs used to describe MaSp sequences were developed prior to the discovery of MaSp3 , this lower overall coverage is unsurprising and does not necessarily imply a less functional role of this MaSp type. expected that our recognition of motifs, as they relate to spidroins, will expand with increased understanding of spidroin diversity. This, however, will require additional analyses of these newly identified MaSps to better understand which repetitive sequence elements are shared widely among members of this MaSp type and should be considered stereotypical motifs. the overall motif coverage was similar between MaSp1 and MaSp2 sequences of L. hesperus and A. aurantia (Fig. 2), motif coverage percentage appears not to explain the difference in their α*. examined motif composition of the repetitive regions to determine if the prevalence of specific motifs could be responsible for the variation in dragline silk properties. A. aurantia MaSp1b differed from other MaSp1 sequences (Fig. 2, . 2), showing both higher poly-GA coverage (7.8%, ~ twice that of either L. hesperus MaSp1 or A. aurantia MaSp1a) and lower GXG motif coverage (29.4%), which is a ~ 33% reduction compared to L. hesperus MaSp1 (45.9%) and A. aurantia MaSp1a (44.5%). GGX motif coverage was similar across species, with coverage ranging from 15.5% (A. aurantia MaSp1b) to 19.3% (L. hesperus MaSp1). of specific motif types, A. aurantia MaSp1s had relatively high representation of the GLG motif (9.9%, MaSp1a; 15.2% MaSp1b), but this motif is entirely absent in L. hesperus MaSp1. Similarly, differences were observed in the abundance of the SQ motif. A. aurantia MaSp1 sequences had a mean sequence coverage 1.4% (1.5% MaSp1a; 1.3% MaSp1b) of the SQ motif which although modest, was nearly absent in L. hesperus MaSp1 (0.3%) (Figs. 1, 2). S and Q residues are polar, it may be that their presence in the repetitive regions of A. aurantia spidroin sequences allows for biochemical interactions that provide A. aurantia fibers with increased toughness through hydrogen bonding . MaSp2 sequences showed more variation in overall motif composition, both between species and within A. aurantia MaSp2 spidroins (Fig. 2). was the near-total absence of poly-GA motifs from A. aurantia MaSp2 sequences (mean: 0.4%, range 0.0–2.9%), with only MaSp2.2a having an appreciable amount (2.9%), compared to the 7.8% in L. hesperus. GGX motifs, which consisted mostly of the GGA motif type after overlap correction, accounted for 5.0% (MaSp2.1a) to 9.1% (MaSp2.2b) in A. aurantia, the average of which was similar to the 7.6% in L. hesperus MaSp2. GXG motif coverage ranged from 27.2% (MaSp2.2a) to 41.1% (MaSp2.1b) of overall sequence in A. aurantia (mean: 37.2%), and coverage in L. hesperus MaSp2 (28.7%) was within that range. GXG motif types, the GYG motif was nearly absent from A. aurantia MaSp2.2a (0.2%), but well represented in the other A. aurantia MaSp2 sequences (mean: 5.9%, range 3.0–11.1%) and L. hesperus MaSp2 (7.8%). GPG, a special class of GXG motif seen most abundantly in MaSp2 sequences, has been shown to impact the extensibility of MA fibers . In L. hesperus MaSp2, GPG motifs were less predominant (19.0%) than in A. aurantia MaSp2s (mean: 26.5%, range 20.9–28.8%). L. hesperus MaSp2 sequences also showed increased poly-A contribution (24.2%), an ~ 60% increase compared to A. aurantia MaSp2 sequences (mean: 15.4%, range with MaSp2.2a excluded: 11.4–15.9%), with the singular exception of MaSp2.2a (22.7%). L. hesperus MaSp2s also had near-total absence of the SQ motif, utilizing a similar QQ motif instead (a trait shared with A. aurantia MaSp2.1a and MaSp2.2a; Fig. 2). indicate that the SQ motifs evolved in a recent ancestor of , and that the inclusion and variation of the SQ/QQ motifs within MaSps may play a role in the interspecific variation of mechanical properties . Notably, A. aurantia MaSp2.1b has just a single QQ motif but the highest SQ motif coverage (4.5%) of all sequences further suggesting QQ and SQ motifs may be serving similar functions. SQ/QQ motifs appear to be spider-specific, absent in fibroin sequences found in other silk-spinning arthropods, such as Lepidoptera. Strikingly, they are also largely absent in L. hesperus MaSp1, but present in both A. aurantia MaSp1 sequences. residues, with fairly regular occurrence throughout the sequence, could be forming hydrogen bonds when exposed to water, participating in the reorganization of the protein and, subsequently its supercontraction. to the differences in motif composition between L. hesperus and A. aurantia MaSp sequences, we looked more closely at the uninterrupted lengths of the various motifs. as GGX often occur successively (e.g., GGAGGQGGQGGY…) before being interrupted by a different motif. of uninterrupted motifs may have an additive or multiplicative effect on their derived mechanical properties. that uninterrupted poly-A and GGX length in MaSp1 sequences were similar across species, but there were some slight differences in the range of uninterrupted GXG motif lengths (3.8 A. aurantia MaSp1b–7.3 L. hesperus MaSp1) than did GGX (3.5 L. hesperus MaSp1–4.8 A. aurantia MaSp1a; Table 1). in MaSp2 sequences were also overall similar, both between species and within A. aurantia, except for a slightly longer poly-A runs in A. aurantia MaSp2.2a (mean length of 8.6 versus 6.0–7.8 amino acids in other sequences). MaSp3s from A. aurantia were distinct from MaSp1 and MaSp2 sequences in possessing the shortest average poly-A length (mean: 4.6 MaSp3s; mean: 7.3 MaSp2s; mean: 7.0 MaSp1s). Thus, there were only subtle differences in uninterrupted motif lengths between the MaSp sequences from the two species, suggesting that motif array size alone is unlikely to be sufficient for explaining the variation in MaSp properties. considered higher level periodicity. regions of L. hesperus MaSp sequences consist of multiple, conserved ensemble repeat units, in which smaller variable repeat units are nested within a larger repeat unit . glycine-rich regions, we noticed that not only did their overall lengths vary between species, but the occurrence of these regions (when classified by length) often displayed a higher level periodicity. In MaSp1 sequences, this is strongly the case for L. hesperus, while A. aurantia MaSp1 sequences displayed a less clear pattern (Fig. 3). , the lengths of glycine-rich regions were longer in A. aurantia MaSp1 sequences than in L. hesperus (mean lengths of 28.5 residues and 21.5 residues, respectively). lengths, however, obscures that the lengths of glycine-rich regions appear in a highly conserved, recurring pattern in L. hesperus MaSp1 ([17-18-27-25]–[17-18-27-25]–[17-18-27-25]-…; averaging 21.5 residues; Fig. 3c). In A. aurantia MaSp1 sequences, there was some evidence of a conserved pattern of glycine-rich region lengths (such as stretches of region lengths [31-25/26]-[31-25/26]-[31-25/26]-… in A. aurantia MaSp1a and [31–25/26]-[31–25/26]-[31–25/26]-… in MaSp1b), but these patterns were frequently interrupted by periods of shorter length (Fig. 3a, b). A. aurantia MaSp2s showed a more obvious, large-scale pattern of glycine-rich region lengths (Fig. 4, all MaSp2 sequences in . 3). of A. aurantia and L. hesperus MaSp2 sequences, again, showed different overall lengths of glycine-rich regions, with those of A. aurantia largely 25–50 residues long, while L. hesperus regions were much shorter, mostly 17 residues long. While A. aurantia MaSp3s had no direct comparison in L. hesperus, their glycine-rich region lengths were more similar to A. aurantia MaSp1s (on average ranging from 21 to 31 aa) than MaSp2s. MaSp3b also showed glycine-rich region periodicity similar to A. aurantia MaSp2 sequences. -scale periodicity of MaSp glycine-rich regions highlights a clear contrast between species, with L. hesperus maintaining a stricter periodicity in MaSp1 sequences than A. aurantia, and vice-versa for MaSp2 sequences. may indicate a significant role of overall periodicity in conferring toughness to silk fibers but will require more investigation, particularly extensions to additional species as α* values and full-length spidroin sequences become available. , increased variability in the glycine-rich region period lengths of A. aurantia spidroins may contribute to the availability of “hidden length” within fibers, a process where new crystalline structures are formed in amorphous regions as hydrogen bonds break under stress, resulting in increased extensibility and toughness . the overall presence and periodicity of motifs in A. aurantia and L. hesperus MaSp sequences, other striking patterns in residue composition became apparent. Specifically, each class of A. aurantia MaSp (MaSp1, MaSp2, or MaSp3), contained at least one sequence with an increased presence of hydrophobic (F) and charged (R, E and/or D) residues: MaSp1b, MaSp2.2a, MaSp3a and MaSp3b (Fig. 5). While L. hesperus MaSp1 and MaSp2 (and A. aurantia MaSp1s) do show an increased presence of positively charged residues (R), they lack the increased presence of hydrophobic and/or negatively charged residues seen in these unique A. aurantia MaSps. a potential role in the mechanical properties, and subsequently, in the different α* values of L. hesperus and A. aurantia MA fibers. hydrophobic residues play a significant role in protein folding, through facilitating molecular interactions . , charged residues, if on the surfaces of spidroins, may contribute to molecular interactions in spidroin-spidroin associations within silk fibers. then feasible that proteins with these biochemical qualities are playing a unique role in the overall assembly of A. aurantia spidroins into silk fibers. of these residues within the spidroin sequences may indicate that they are specialized for an important role in the overall structure of silk fibers. The A. aurantia-specific MaSps with unique properties also seem particularly relevant to interactions with water. negatively charged residues can influence both within-protein interactions, and thus folding, as well as protein–protein associations leading to molecular assembly processes. , the regular alternation of these charged residues with hydrophobic residues suggests these interactions could be relevant by participating in the reorganization of the crystalline portions, or even more generally to overall thread properties by facilitating spidroin–spidroin association. disparate mechanical demands on the MA silks of A. aurantia and L. hesperus. deployed as the safety dragline, MA silk is amply used in the scaffold of L. hesperus cobwebs and the frame and radii of A. aurantia orb webs. types of webs capture prey differently. L. hesperus cobwebs capture both walking and flying prey through use of gumfoot threads, which detach from the substrate to ensnare prey . MA fibers have been associated with the upper tangled portion of the cobweb, as well as the axial fibers of gumfoot lines , though recent proteomic evidence suggests that flagelliform fibers (which make up the capture spiral in orb webs) may be more present in gumfoot lines than previously thought . , spiders such as A. aurantia ensnare flying prey with aerial nets composed of highly extensible, sticky capture spiral silk supported by the MA fibers that form the frame and radii . capture spiral facilitates both prey retention and reduction of web damage via localized deformation , the radii have been found to absorb the majority (70–100%) of energy from prey impact via dissipation of forces globally . to the energy absorption of prey impact have been attributed to the “secondary frame” , also composed of MA fibers. different modes of prey capture and tensile demands on MA silk, selection for strong but comparatively inflexible MA fibers may have been favored in cobweb spiders, while an increased raw distance of fiber extension may have been favored in orb-web weavers both to maximize the web’s ability to absorb energy from prey impact and to facilitate localized deformation within capture spiral threads for prey retention. periodicity of spidroin sequences is believed to be a consequence of multiple factors, the most dramatic of which are natural selection and recombination-mediated mechanisms, such as unequal crossing over, that result in the homogenization of tandem repeats . could explain the consistency of motif periodicity throughout the length of MaSp sequences. in spidroin sequences of two spiders with different α* values are likely playing a role in the distinctive overall mechanical properties of these silks, such as the breaking of hydrogen bonds associated with the “entropic unfolding” deformation phase dragline fibers experience at intermediate strains . be highlighted that the full relevance of this analysis can only be obtained after characterizing not only the differences between distinct protein sequences, but also determining their quantitative presence in the MA fibers of each species . However, even without this information, it is possible to establish some key differences in the structures of A. aurantia and L. hesperus MaSps that offer clues on the origin of the different tensile properties of both materials. that the number of residues between poly-A motifs is higher in A. aurantia MaSps than in the MaSps of L. hesperus. could allow for more amorphous, coiled regions, likely facilitating malleability of these spidroins, a quality associated with increased extensibility. , in A. aurantia MA silk, the greater distances between poly-A motifs might be correlated with a larger hidden length, resulting from a more gradual alignment of the fiber’s semi-amorphous region in response to strain compared with that spun by L. hesperus. expanded to the periodic occurrences of proline and tyrosine-associated motifs, such as GYG and GPG. been shown to be a major contributor to supercontraction , and recent analyses of synthetic MA fibers have demonstrated that tyrosine (Y) residues may also be playing an integral role . the variability of observed Y-associated motifs (GYG; all MaSps, GRYG: A. aurantia MaSp1a, MaSp3a, MaSp3b; PYG: A. aurantia MaSp2.1a, MaSp2.2a, MaSp2.2b, MaSp2.2c, MaSp2.2d, MaSp2.2e; SY: A. aurantia MaSp2.1b; VY: A. aurantia MaSp2.1b; AY: A. aurantia MaSp2.2e, L. hesperus MaSp2), analysis was expanded to the higher level periodicity of the tyrosine residue itself to better investigate the relationship between tyrosine and supercontraction potential. were found to occur with conserved, higher level periodicities in all MaSp sequences of both species, typically ~ 5–40 amino acids apart (. 4), though a single case, A. aurantia MaSp2.2a, showed larger distances between tyrosine residues overall (60–100 aa). that tyrosine’s periodic occurrence within MaSps may be a basic property of dragline fibers, regardless of the involved motif, adding weight to tyrosine’s proposed importance in supercontraction . Within A. aurantia MaSp1s, the average distances between tyrosine residues varied (27.5 MaSp1a; 63.5 MaSp1b), while the average distance between tyrosine residues of L. hesperus MaSp1 was smaller (19.2). observed in L. hesperus MaSp1 was strikingly similar to those seen in all other MaSps, regardless of MaSp class or species (mean: 17.5, range 17.3–21.7), with the exception of A. aurantia MaSp2.2a (64.5) which showed values similar to A. aurantia MaSp1b. Proline-containing motifs were also examined, through the analysis of the periodic occurrences of proline (P) residues. L. hesperus MaSp2 showed relatively little obvious periodicity, while conservation of P periodic occurrence was well observed in A. aurantia MaSp2s, particularly within the MaSp2.2s. MaSp2 sequences, P distances ranged from 2 to 15 amino acids (. 5), with comparatively shorter distances in A. aurantia MaSp2s (mean: 6.6 vs 10.4 in L. hesperus). a clear difference between MaSp2 sequences of L. hesperus and A. aurantia. with the results of tyrosine periodicity, it appears that the presence and occurrence of tyrosine residues may provide base-level supercontraction potential to all MaSps, but that this supercontraction potential is improved upon by the presence and periodic occurrences of proline residues. of tyrosine-associated motifs, like GGY , then, may explain the ability of RTA spider MaSps to supercontract, though only about half as well as those of araneoid spiders, despite lacking proline-containing MaSp2s . highlights several qualities of MaSp sequences that may be influencing the overall structural and mechanical properties of MA fibers in the context of the α* parameter, such as the presence/absence of the SQ/QQ motifs, increased presence of the GLG motif type in A. aurantia MaSp1s, the absence of the GYG motif in A. aurantia MaSp2.2a and the absence of poly-GA motifs in most A. aurantia MaSp2 sequences. of spidroins with polar, charged, and hydrophobic residues is also likely to impact the folding and/or assembly of the spidroins through various molecular interactions, such as hydrogen bonds, and to influence the interaction of the proteins with water. might be relevant both for the spinning of the fiber from the viscous silk dope and for the performance of the solid material. spider silks is, in part, associated with the ability of the crystalline portions of silks to change their orientation in response to water, a process which could be facilitated by such interactions. , the periodicity of some residues, like tyrosine, within the sequences is strongly conserved. of distance suggests that they may be facilitating important, and identifiable interactions during the assembly of spidroins into silk fibers and are likely to be influencing the overall properties of dragline silks. composition (particularly GXG) and increased glycine-rich region length may contribute to define the hidden length exhibited by different proteins and, consequently, be relevant to silk fiber mechanical properties. also likely to play a role here, as we see distinct differences between A. aurantia and L. hesperus, with A. aurantia showing more conservation of periodicity in MaSp2 sequences, while L. hesperus exhibiting more periodicity in MaSp1. , while periodic occurrence of tyrosine residues is shown to be a base-level characteristic of all spidroins examined, we did find higher level periodic occurrence of proline in A. aurantia MaSp2s that is absent in the MaSp2 of L. hesperus, implicating proline as a contributor to variance in α* values. also suggests that the overall sequence coverage and uninterrupted length of motifs are unlikely to play a critical role in the structural and mechanical properties of dragline silks. of two exemplar spiders should be expanded to additional species to test hypotheses on the relevance of these molecular components in overall fiber tensile properties, as α* values and full-length spidroin sequences become available. at present discount the potential role of other factors, such as post-translational modifications or overall number of MaSp genes, in supercontraction potential of MaSp fibers. , expression levels of the different MaSps in the major ampullate gland are needed to fully contextualize the sequence comparisons and proteomic analysis is needed to confirm the presence of MaSps in dragline fibers. MaSp1 and Masp2 are expressed within the dragline fibers of L. hesperus , no proteomic studies have been conducted for A. aurantia. Similarly, the architecture of the fibers themselves, including microstructures such as nonfibrillar bundles , may be impacting the overall mechanical properties of silk fibers. qualities would be subject not only to the molecular properties of the spidroins forming the fibers, but also to the physical constraints of spider silk-spinning systems . , however, significant endeavors requiring combined genomic and proteomic analyses, the first of which (in the spider ) has just recently been published . study, however, offers a primer on identifying the relevant molecular differences between spidroins that substantiate their wide range of mechanical properties. ampullate silk (MaSp) of orb-weaving spiders is renowned for its exceptional mechanical properties, including high tensile strength and extensibility. of artificial spider silk presents a promising alternative to traditional fibers with significant environmental impacts. aims to elucidate the relationship between sequence motifs of natural spider silk and the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk. , we identified motifs correlated with specific physical properties and substituted them into MaSp2-based mini-spidroin BP1. measured the mechanical properties of the resulting recombinant artificial spider silk through tensile tests, observed structural properties via birefringence measurement and wide-angle X-ray scattering, and evaluated the water response through boiled water shrinkage tests. Introducing a positively correlated motif increased the tensile strength by 9.3%, while a negatively correlated motif decreased it by 5.1%, confirming the sequence–property relationship. demonstrate that targeted motif substitution can effectively control the physical properties of artificial spider silk, facilitating the development of sustainable biomaterials with tailored mechanical properties for diverse industrial applications. spiders produce up to seven types of silk, one of which is the major ampullate silk (MA-silk). is used for draglines and the supporting lines of webs. (1−5) its remarkable mechanical properties, including toughness (“ Toughness” in Instron’s , but we thereafter use “toughness” for it is more common in silk studies) up to 0.45 GJ/m3, (6) and energy-efficient production, (7) MA-silk has been extensively studied to understand how it achieves its superior mechanical properties and forms fibers from soluble spinning dopes. (8−10) spider silk is primarily composed of proteins, there have been ongoing efforts to artificially reconstruct fibers with similar attractive mechanical properties using recombinant protein technology. (11−13) Furthermore, with the recent realization of the pollution of the marine environment by microplastics derived from synthetic polymers, including man-made fibers, (14,15) alternative biodegradable materials are attracting attention. (16) demand for environmentally sustainable materials has prompted a re-evaluation of natural and artificial protein fibers. (17) companies are currently working on scaling up the production of artificial spider silk, and some have already launched their products in the market. (16,18) Thus, predictive design and control of the physical properties of artificial spider silk are crucial for improving alternative materials. have been reported between the amino acid sequences of major ampullate spidroins (MaSps), which comprise MA-silk, and their mechanical properties. al. observed that the evolutionary acquirement of MaSp2 enhanced toughness by increasing extensibility while introducing the GGX motif at the base of strength and stiffness. (19) A phylogenetic analysis by al. revealed that the serine composition of MaSps is negatively correlated with toughness, while glycine composition is positively correlated with tensile strength, followed by proline composition negatively correlating with Young’s modulus. (20) suggest that the sequence and composition of MA-silks significantly affect the physical properties. of artificial spider silk, it has been demonstrated that modifying protein sequences can alter the physical properties of the material. properties of the artificial spider silk created from MaSp1, MaSp2, and MiSp recombinant mini-spidroin showed significant differences: MaSp1 exhibited the highest tensile strength, while MaSp2 had the highest extensibility. (21) al. demonstrated that substituting tyrosine with phenylalanine in NT2RepCT reduced the supercontraction of biomimetically spun artificial spider silk. (22) In a recent study, al. investigated the effect of varying the length of polyalanine in MaSp1-based mini-spidroin, finding that increasing polyalanine length enhances tensile strength and Young’s modulus. (23) suggest that protein sequences can indeed affect the physical properties of artificial spider silk fibers. the comprehensive relationship between protein sequence and physical properties in natural MA-silk, al. collected 1000 spiders from diverse geographical locations and used transcriptomics to sequence the spidroins. (6) Additionally, the physical properties of the dragline silk of these spiders were quantified. revealed that the third type of MA-silk spidroin, MaSp3, exhibited the strongest correlation with toughness. MaSp3 was initially identified through target capture sequencing in multiple spider species, (24) and whole genome sequencing and multiomics studies have demonstrated that MaSp3 is one of the most abundant spidroins in the MA-silk of . (25−27) 1000 spider silkome project, it was found that the composition of MaSp1, MaSp2, and MaSp3 primarily affects the physical properties of the silk; however, sequence motifs for each spidroin were also found to have correlations with various physical properties. (6) to validate these correlations between sequence motifs and mechanical properties, recombinant mini-spidroins with and without these motifs should be spun into artificial spider silk, and the resulting silk’s physical properties should be evaluated. -spidroins used in this work were all based on BP1, an artificial mini-spidroin based on the spider’s major ampullate spidroin MaSp2 as previously described. (28) motifs utilized for the modification of BP1 mini-spidroin were extracted using the following procedure. First, the protein sequences of MaSp2 that were sequenced from the individuals collected in the corresponding physical properties were extracted from the . Then, we extracted motifs from the sequences by calculating the between the occurrence values of the motifs, as previously described. (6) Finally, we selected the motifs to be tested in vitro, which are those with the highest positive or negative correlation with mechanical properties, crystallinity, birefringence, and supercontraction. The SQ motif and PQ motifs were additionally selected because these motifs serve as alternatives of the QQ in MaSp2 in several which suggests relationships with mechanical properties. (29) Subsequently, we defined substitution patterns for each motif, such as PGQ → GPQ, where the pattern means substituting PGQ in the BP1 amino acid sequence with GPQ. the influence of specific motifs on the physical properties of BP1 silk, two modifications were made to the amino acid sequences. If BP1 already contained the motif of interest, the frequency of the motif was reduced by substituting it with a different sequence while maintaining the overall amino acid composition. Conversely, if BP1 lacked the desired motif, then the motif was introduced by adding or replacing sequences. acid sequences of these BP1 mutants are detailed in Figures S1–S15. Table 1 shows the motifs used in this study. Since BP1 is an artificial mini-spidroin based on MaSp2, we selected MaSp2 motifs that correspond to physical and structural properties. property, we selected motifs with the highest negative and positive correlations. specific pattern we are studying already existed in BP1, we reduced its occurrence by replacing it with a different pattern, ensuring that we kept the same amino acid composition as much as possible. , to study the effects of the ‘GQ’ pattern, which reduces crystallinity, we changed “GQ” to “QG” in the mutant. If BP1 did not have the pattern that we wanted to examine, we modified BP1 by adding or replacing the necessary patterns. that these changes do not introduce side effects, we carefully avoided increasing the molecular weight during these modifications. Figures S1–S15 show the amino acid sequences of the mutant BP 1s. Interestingly, substitution of the motifs did not result in any negative changes in the expression of the mutant mini-spidroins by E. coli, as shown in Figure S18. A summary of the effects of the motifs on the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk is shown in Table 2. in the table indicates the percentage change in the mechanical properties of the fiber compared with the unmodified BP1 fiber at the same draw ratio. cells indicate no significant changes. , including stress–strain curves, mechanical properties, SEM images, and fiber birefringence, are documented in Figures S19–S31. of the motifs on tensile strength are consistent with their correlations; motifs positively correlated with tensile strength increase it, whereas those negatively correlated reduce it, as shown in Figure 3. However, Young’s modulus did not show any significant changes in relation to any of the motifs. case of toughness, motifs predicted to positively or negatively influence toughness both resulted in an increase, as shown in Figures S18 and S19. the expectations for strain at break, motifs predicted to increase strain actually decreased it and those predicted to decrease strain had no effect. However, both types of strain at break motifs unexpectedly increased the tensile strength. was also examined: BP1 mutants modified with motifs predicted to reduce birefringence (PGQ → GPQ, SSA → SAS) exhibited lower birefringence than unmodified BP1 at all draw ratios, as shown in Figure S29. Finally, as detailed in Table S1, modifications of motifs associated with positive or negative effects on crystallinity did not significantly alter fiber crystallinity at any draw ratio. increase birefringence with a specific motif change (SAA → SSA) was not successful, which will be discussed in subsequent sections. performed to investigate the response of the recombinant artificial spider silk fiber in water at 98 °C. Table S2 shows the boiled water shrinkage rate, shrinkage after drying, and total shrinkage for each motif-substituted mutant. water shrinkage rate for the “SAA → SSA” mutant could not be measured due to the unavailability of the fiber sample. “AAAAAAGP → AAAAASGP” and “AAAAAGQ → AAAAASGPQ” mutants and the “GQ → QG” and ‘GPGA → GPAG, YGP → YGPS’ mutants, the boiled water shrinkage rate could not be measured due to fiber breakage in the hot bath or after drying. the shrinkage assays showed no significant difference from that of the control. However, the “QQ → SQ” and “QQ → PQ” mutants had significantly lower total shrinkage rates than the control (see Table S3 and Figure S30). the control and the motif-substituted mutant, we observed an increase in boiled water shrinkage with an increasing draw ratio. , we observed a decrease in shrinkage after drying with an increasing draw ratio. with the birefringence-positive motif “SAA → SSA” (Figure S12) did not form fibers under the tested conditions. coagulation bath, the fibers drawn in the water bath were dissolved. the surface morphology of the fiber, we rewrote it without passing it through the water bath. The SEM image in Figure S31B shows that the fiber was extremely brittle and weakened. of the modification were evaluated using a molecular dynamics simulation. “SAA → SSA” mutant has two and three serine residues before polyalanine, we created the models with two and three serine residues before polyalanine. results showed a slightly distorted polyalanine beta-sheet structure when the three serine residues precede the polyalanine, as shown in Figure S31C. study, we modified BP1 (MaSp2) with motifs correlated with physical properties, which were identified through the analysis of spidroins collected from 1000 spider species, (6) and observed the effects on the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk fibers. allowed us to investigate the relationship between the primary sequence motifs of spidroins and the mechanical properties of the fibers, a topic of considerable interest due to the complex composition of natural spider silk, which includes multiple spidroins such as MaSp1, MaSp2, MaSp3, and other nonspidroin component, spider silk-constituting elements (SpiCEs). (25,26) of natural spider silk, which contains multiple spidroins and SpiCEs, plays a significant role in its mechanical properties, (25) raising questions about the feasibility of replicating these properties using artificial fibers composed of a single spidroin. However, the observation of the effects of single spidroin motifs on the mechanical properties in this experiment confirms the correlation between the primary sequences of spidroins and their mechanical properties. of experiments has demonstrated the potential to control the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk using motifs derived from natural spidroins. properties were easier to manipulate, others presented challenges. , while the effects of motifs on tensile strength were as predicted for both positive and negative effects, strain at break showed an opposite trend. negative predicted effects on toughness were both found to increase it, potentially due to the influence of strain dependence on modifications across the entire repeat region, as suggested in Figure 4. , which is influenced by the crystalline region and its vicinity, appears to be more easily controlled. Interestingly, substitutions of both positive (QGPY → QGPSGY) and negative (AAAAA → AAASA) motifs increased the tensile strength and birefringence (Figures S19 and S20). was not expected, but the birefringence of the fibers is higher than the control, which is consistent with reports that tensile strength and orientation order are correlated in natural dragline silk. (42,43) natural dragline silk, these motifs may help orient crystalline regions, and it may affect the strain at break in the natural dragline silk because the orientation of the crystallites is correlated with the strain. (42) Furthermore, as shown in Figure 4, the experiment revealed correlations between the locations of motif substitutions and insertions and the affected mechanical properties. , the strength and Young’s modulus of the dragline silk were found to have been influenced from alterations in or around crystalline regions. aligns with previous studies that have identified crystalline regions as the primary source of the Young’s modulus and tensile strength of dragline silk. (42,44) other hand, strain at break was mainly influenced by modifications in amorphous regions. changes with modifications in both the crystalline and amorphous regions, suggesting that different mechanical properties can be influenced by modifying different regions of the fiber. SAA with SSA motifs, which positively affect birefringence, resulted in fiber dissolution during extension in the water bath, preventing fiber formation. indicates a correlation between orientation and supercontraction. (45) be associated with the dissolution occurring in the water bath and birefringence, which represents the orientation of the molecules within the fiber. be due to differences in the spinning mechanisms between natural and artificial silk or specific issues related to the modified protein sequence. simulations suggested that β-sheets may be slightly distorted when serine is present three times compared with twice before a polyalanine sequence, indicating that certain modifications can render artificial spinning infeasible. discussed, the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk are contingent upon the structural properties, including the crystallinity and orientation of the crystalline and amorphous regions. in Figure 4 that the location of the modification is related to the modified properties and that the modification around the crystal region changes tensile strength through the degree of orientation indicates that the sequence motifs affect the structure of the spidroin and that the structure of the spidroin affects the mechanical properties of the fiber. Moreover, alterations to the amorphous region impact the toughness and strain at break, which may also influence the secondary structure of the spidroin within the fiber due to the presence of sequence motifs. Interestingly, motifs with positive/negative effects on crystallinity were found to increase toughness, consistent with the analysis of spidroins from 1000 spider species, which showed a high correlation between crystallinity and toughness. (6) However, as shown in Table S1, the crystallinity and orientation of the crystallites of the modified proteins did not differ from the control in the artificial spider silk. natural spider silk, the major ampullate silk has hierarchical structures that are bundles of nanofibrils, (46) whereas the artificial spider silk produced in this study does not have a hierarchical structure because the mini-spidroins are dissolved in the organic solvent and coagulated in the methanol. natural spinning process used by spiders, the crystallization of polyalanine antiparallel beta-pleated sheets is induced by the shear force in the spinning duct. (47,48) However, in the artificial spinning processes using an organic solvent and a methanol coagulation bath, the crystallization of the polyalanine occurs immediately in the coagulation bath, resulting in the fiber lacking the hierarchical structure. (12,49) difference is therefore presumably the consequence of the difference in spinning procedures in natural and artificial spider silk. , which was employed in the study, was used in the investigation of regenerated silk. Additionally, there are reports concerning the structure of fibroin and spidroin in formic acid. al. observed that the Gly-Pro-Gly-X motif of MaSp2 forms a type II β-turn structure in formic acid, which is analogous to that observed in MaSp2 present in silk fibers. Furthermore, it was observed that the mobility of the glycine-rich region is lower than that of the polyalanine region, which provides insight into the underlying reason for the stability of MaSp2 in formic acid. observed that the MaSp2 film prepared by dissolving it in formic acid forms a β-sheet structure, which is not observed in the DMSO-prepared sponge or the HFIP-prepared film. indicates that the secondary structure of MaSp2 in formic acid may possess structural properties common to those of the natural MaSp2 aqueous solution. be a potential explanation for the observation of sequence–property relationships in the study. However, there are notable differences between the natural spinning system and the artificial system utilizing formic acid and methanol in terms of the hierarchical structures. artificial spinning system employed in this study, the spidroin is dissolved in formic acid and subsequently coagulated and crystallized through desolvation. process was observed to occur immediately upon extrusion of the spidroin into the coagulation bath, resulting in the immediate crystallization of the polyalanine. , the natural spinning system utilized by spiders involves the dissolution of the spidroin in an aqueous solution, where it undergoes fibrillation due to the dimerization of the N-terminal domain, which is activated by a pH gradient. (7,50) spinning system, the formation of nanofibril bundles within the fiber is achieved through the rapid self-assembly of a nanofibril network during mild acidification. hierarchical structure, comprising the nanofibril network, endows the major ampullate silk with its distinctive mechanical properties. (8,10,27) may be the reason why the sequence–property relationships observed in natural spider silk could not be replicated, particularly those related to the strain at the break. the reproducibility of the motifs and properties relationships observed in the natural spider silk, the utilization of the biomimetic spinning system (7,22,48,51,52) would be the solution. study, the substitution of the diglutamine (QQ) motif with serine-glutamine (SQ) and proline-glutamine (PQ) in our experiments measuring boiled water shrinkage has demonstrated a marked decrease in the extent of contraction upon immersion and subsequent drying. Notably, the QQ motif, which is prevalent in MaSp2, is linked to the GP sequence within the characteristic GPGXX motif of MaSp2. (53−55) hypothesized that the QQ motif plays a role in maintaining the hierarchical structure of major ampullate silk although its function remains to be elucidated. (29,55) reduction in shrinkage upon substitution suggests a possible interaction of these motifs with water and thermally induced fiber deformation, potentially akin to the supercontraction phenomenon which is induced by water immersion. on supercontraction has identified the MaSp2 and the proline-rich GPGXX motif as the primary contributor to supercontraction, associated with torsional fiber deformation. implicate the QQ motif in supercontraction alongside the GPG motif. Nonetheless, given the lack of supercontraction data specific to the SQ and PQ motifs in our previous research, further investigation is required to unravel the underlying supercontraction mechanisms and the individual contributions of the QQ, SQ, and PQ motifs. describes the influence of motifs in the primary sequence of spidroin on the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk. confirm that specific motifs extracted from a comprehensive analysis of 1000 spider species significantly modify mechanical properties, such as tensile strength. , motifs identified as influencing tensile strength do so in both positive and negative ways. However, manipulating strain at break proved to be more challenging, highlighting the complex interaction between the primary sequence and mechanical properties. , our results confirm the role of motif placement within the primary sequence in achieving the desired changes, consistent with previous discussions. Interestingly, our study suggests that the diglutamine motif may contribute to the fiber’s response to water and temperature changes, confirming our previous analysis of the natural spider silk. (6) add a link between the primary sequence and the supercontraction phenomena observed in dragline silk, in addition to the proline in MaSp2, (57,58,60,61) -GXG- in MaSp1, (58) and hydroxyproline. (62) confirm the intrinsic relationship between the primary sequence and the mechanical properties of artificial spider silk and suggest promising approaches for future applications in the emerging artificial silk industry. of motif combinations and refined control of mechanical properties are promising to advance artificial spider silk. (major ampullate) silk is one of the toughest known fibers in nature and exhibits an excellent combination of high tensile strength and elasticity. has indicated that preassembly plays a crucial role in facilitating the proper assembly of silk fibers by bridging the mesoscale gap between spidroin molecules and the final strong fibers. However, it remains challenging to control the preassembly of spidroins and investigate its influence on fiber structural and mechanical properties. study, we explored to bridge this gap by modulating the polyalanine (polyA) motifs in repetitive region of spidroins to tune their preassemblies in aqueous dope solutions. silk proteins with varying numbers of alanine residues in polyA motif and comparable molecular weights were designed and biosynthesized, termed as N16C-5A, N15C-8A, and N13C-12A, respectively. found that all three proteins could form nanofibril assemblies in the concentrated aqueous dopes, but the size and structural stability of the fibrils were distinct from each other. protein N15C-8A with 8 alanine residues in polyA motif allowed for the formation of stable nanofibril assemblies with a length of approximately 200 nm, which were not prone to disassemble or aggregate as that of N16C-5A and N13C-12A. , the stable fibril assembly of N15C-8A enabled spinning of simultaneously strong (623.3 MPa) and tough (107.1 MJ m–3) synthetic fibers with fine molecular orientation and close interface packing of fibril bundles. highlights that modulation of polyA motifs is a feasible way to tune the morphology and stability of the spidroin preassemblies in dope solutions, thus controlling the structural and mechanical properties of the resulting fibers. (major ampullate) silk is one of the toughest known fibers in nature, which exhibits an exceptional combination of high tensile strength and elasticity. (1−3) its remarkable mechanical properties and good biocompatibility, spider dragline silk has drawn increasing attention for various applications. (4−7) silk predominantly consists of two proteins: major ampullate spidroins 1 (MaSp1) and 2 (MaSp2). ampullate spidroins typically exhibit a high molecular weight and consist of repetitive core domains flanked by nonrepetitive terminal domains. (8,9) prominent motif of individual repeats is a polyalanine (polyA) stretch, which ranges from 5 to 14 residues depending on the spider species. (10) , these polyA stretches assemble into tightly packed β-sheet crystallites responsible for the mechanical strength, while other loosely structured regions enhance the flexibility. are highly conserved and play crucial roles in spidroin assembly in response to low pH and salts, (11−16) which enable storage of spidroins at high concentrations and alignment during fiber formation. into spidroin structure and self-assembly provide valuable knowledge for understanding and manipulating the spinning process of artificial spider silk. (17,18) The polyA motif within the repetitive region of spidroin not only serves as the structural foundation for β-sheet crystallites in the fibers but also acts as cross-linking points between spidroin molecules. (31) the numbers of alanine residues in polyA motif can affect inter- or intramolecular interactions of spidroin molecules, which is supposed to modulate the preassembly of spidroins in aqueous dopes and the resulting mechanical properties of the spun fibers. this hypothesis, two synthetic spidroins (N15C-8A and N13C-12A) were first designed with the same biomimetic triblock structure as the previously reported N16C-5A but differing in the number of alanine residues in the polyA motif. spidroins were then biosynthesized to study the modulating roles of polyA motifs in spidroin preassembly and the resulting mechanical properties of spun fibers. demonstrated that the number of alanine residues in polyA significantly affected the sizes and stability of the preassemblies of spidroins. N15C-8A with an appropriate number of alanine residues in polyA motifs formed stable nanofibril assemblies with a length of approximately 200 nm in the aqueous dopes, which resulted in strong and tough fibers with ordered, hierarchical fibrillar structures. synthetic spidroins by modulating polyA motifs. (a) role of polyA motifs in the hierarchical assembly of spider dragline silk. PolyA motifs form β-sheet structures that are cross-linked into nanofibrils and then assembled into fibers. (b) the recombinant spidroins and their molecular characteristics. acid sequences of the repetitive region and the terminal domains (NTD and CTD) are derived from the major ampullate spidroin 1 of spider T. clavipes. successfully biosynthesized three biomimetic spidroins with varying numbers of alanine residues in the polyA motif for spinning into artificial fibers. demonstrated that N15C-8A with an appropriate number of alanine residues enabled formation of stable nanofibrillar preassemblies in concentrated aqueous dopes, which resist disassembly upon dilution and prevent premature aggregation. , these mesoscale assemblies enabled spinning into strong and tough fibers with fine molecular orientation, tight interfacial interactions between fibril bundles, and minimal distribution of defects. thereby highlights the important role of preassembly modulation in dope solutions of spidroins on their hierarchical assembly into strong and tough synthetic fibers. produce up to seven different types of silk, each with unique mechanical properties that stem from variations in the repetitive regions of spider silk proteins (spidroins). silk can be made from mini-spidroins in an all-aqueous-based spinning process, but the strongest fibers seldom reach more than 25% of the strength of native silk fibers. aim to improve the mechanical properties of silk fibers made from mini-spidroins and to understand the relationship between the protein design and the mechanical properties of the fibers, we designed 16 new spidroins, ranging from 31.7 to 59.5 kDa, that feature the globular spidroin N- and C-terminal domains, but harbor different repetitive sequences. that more than 50% of these constructs could be spun by extruding them into low-pH aqueous buffer and that the best fibers were produced from proteins whose repeat regions were derived from major ampullate spidroin 4 (MaSp4) and elastin. properties differed between fiber types but did not correlate with the expected properties based on the origin of the repeats, suggesting that additional factors beyond protein design impact the properties of the fibers. ampullate silk is among the most impressive fibers known in terms of mechanical properties, which stem from a unique combination of high tensile strength and extensibility. (1−4) , spiders make up to seven distinct types of silk, (5,6) each endowed with unique properties tailored to each type’s specific function. (7,8) , major ampullate silk possesses the highest strength and is used as a lifeline, (9) aciniform silk is more extensible and used for prey wrapping, (10) while flagelliform silk coated with aggregate glue is extremely extensible and hence used for making the capture spiral. (11) types are mainly composed of spider silk proteins (spidroins), which in general are very large with a molecular weight of up to 300 kDa. (12,13) share a common architecture, featuring a repetitive (Rep) region, which is flanked by globularly folded N-terminal (NT) (14) and C-terminal (CT) (15) domains. NT and CT are responsible for the high solubility of the spidroins during storage and for polymerization of the spidroins when exposed to shear and a decreased pH. (15−19) mechanical properties of the silk fiber are likely to stem from disparities in the spidroins’ . (20−22) , the major ampullate spidroins (MaSps) carry characteristic poly- that alternate with Gly-rich regions, (23) and according to the current model of the fiber structure–function relationship, the poly- nanosized β-sheet crystals in the mature fiber conferring the fiber strength, (24) while the Gly-rich segments make up an amorphous and flexible matrix in which these crystals are embedded. (25,26) comes from the flagelliform silk which is composed of spidroins that have Pro-rich repeat regions, which are believed to contribute to the extreme extensibility of this silk type. (27) Nevertheless, recent results suggest that this correlation is not straightforward, but that a combination of spidroins and other proteins is necessary to obtain the strength and extensibility of major ampullate silk. (28) same way that spiders use their different silk types for specific purposes, (29) fibers with different properties are needed for specific industrial applications. , an important selection criterion of fibers for clothing is comfort, (30,31) while sports goods could benefit from lightweight, elastic, and tough fibers. (32) and unique properties of spider silks make the material attractive for many applications, for instance, biomedical (33−36) and aerospace (37) applications, as durable components in robotics, (38) as sustainable wearables, (39) in sports goods, (40) and in other high-end textiles. (8,41) silk fibers are made from recombinant spidroin-like proteins that often consist of the alone (no terminal domains). from large (300 kDa (42−44)) can feature GPa strength. (43,44) However, this production method comes with the disadvantage that solvents such as hexafluoropropanol and methanol are needed during the spinning process and that the protein yield is rather low. for producing artificial spider silk is to express natively folded mini-spidroins that consist of the NT, a short Rep, and a CT. (45−50) of this approach is that the proteins can be purified using native conditions, and the artificial silk fibers are formed by decreasing the pH and/or using shear forces. (45−50) , on the other hand, comes with the disadvantage that fibers are weaker, reaching a maximum strength of 250 MPa. (48,51) for the reduced strength compared to the non-native spinning methodology could be the comparatively small size of the mini-spidroins of less than 100 kDa. (46−49,51,52) aim to improve and specifically tailor the mechanical properties of artificial silk fibers made from mini-spidroins and to understand the relationship between the protein design and the mechanical properties of the fibers, we systematically modified the mini-spidroin NT2RepCT. NT2RepCT has a MaSp1 featuring two poly- located between NT and CT, expresses at high very yields of up to 21 g/L with , (53) and is extremely soluble in aqueous buffers (500 mg/mL). (54) NT2RepCT, we explored four different strategies: (1) to vary the poly- length, (2) to increase the size of the MaSp1 region, (3) to insert from different spidroin types, and (4) to insert from other naturally occurring fibrous proteins. Thus, a battery of 16 mini-spidroins was designed (Figure 1), and fibers spun from these proteins were characterized by determining their mechanical properties. Figure 1. basic mini-spidroin concept described by al., (45) the in NT2RepCT was replaced with other natural and engineered repeats. Altogether 16 proteins were designed (listed in Table 1) with originating from MaSp1 (three different constructs with an increased size of the and two with shortened poly-), MaSp4 (two constructs), elastin (two constructs), FlSp (two constructs), TuSp (two constructs), resilin (one construct), and MiSp (one construct). are shown in the lower panel, the complete sequences of NT, CT, and all are listed in Table S1, and a short description of each insert is provided in Table S2. was made with Biorender.com using structures from (PDB)2MFZ and 4FBS. , we designed 16 constructs that carry different inserted between the terminal domains (complete sequences are listed in Tables S1 and S2). these carried from the MaSp1 from , three from a MaSp4 from , (55) two from elastin from , two from a tubuliform spidroin (TuSp) from , (56) two from a flagelliform spidroin (FlSp) from T. clavipes, (56) one from resilin from , (57) and one from minor ampullate spidroin (MiSp) from . (58) were named after the protein from which the repetitive segment was derived and the number of amino acid residues in the repeat region. constructs were based on the MaSp1 , in which the natural 15 and 14-residue-long poly- were replaced by four or eight consecutive , which were named MaSp1_A4 and MaSp1_A8, respectively. , already reported values for solubility and yield of the previously characterized NT2RepCT (51,53,54) (according to the nomenclature described herein, NT2RepCT would be called MaSp1_77) and (A3I)3-A14 (52) proteins were used. - found in the MaSp form crystals in the fiber, which are believed to confer the strength of the fibers. have suggested that restricting the size of the crystals is imperative for optimizing the strength since large crystals will be more likely to bend and fracture than smaller ones. (24,60) same time, poly- composed of less than seven residues are not expected to form β-sheet crystals. (61) on these results, co-workers investigated recombinant spidroins containing 5, 8, or 12 in the poly-. (62) that the construct containing 12 produced artificial silk fibers that were weaker compared with the other constructs. produced the strongest (623 MPa) and toughest (107 MJ m–3) artificial silk fibers. Accordingly, we designed two variants of NT2RepCT in which the poly- were shortened to eight or four residues, respectively (MaSp1_A8 and MaSp1_A4). Surprisingly, MaSp1_A8 was not spinnable, as fibers broke when guided through the spinning bath. Likewise, it was difficult to spin and collect MaSp1_A4 fibers, which is reflected in the mechanical properties of these fibers which were among those with the lowest strength and extensibility of all fibers investigated herein (Table 2). Hence, reducing the number of in the poly- of NT2RepCT did not lead to improvement of the fibers’ mechanical properties. the impact of longer repeat regions, we extended the repeat region of NT2RepCT so that the resulting mini-spidroins encompassed three poly- (MaSp1_110), five poly- (MaSp1_173), or seven poly- (MaSp1_237). assessed the expression levels and benchmarked against NT2RepCT that can be expressed and purified at high yields reaching 250 mg/L in shake flask cultivations. (52,54) flask cultures, MaSp1_110 can be obtained at 183 mg/L, but surprisingly, we could not identify the longer MaSp1_173 and MaSp1_237 on an SDS-PAGE of the cells after expression (Figure S3), which indicates a very low or nonexisting expression. Interestingly, others such as co-workers succeeded in expressing constructs having 24 poly- with a standard E. coli strain, showing that it is in principle possible to recombinantly express spidroins with longer Rep. (63) particular example, each poly- hosted only 5 , which is much fewer compared to the up to 15 consecutive found in our MaSp1 . Nevertheless, we believe that the longer poly- is probably not the only cause for the failed expression of MaSp1_173 and MaSp1_237, since a recent study by al. succeeded to express spidroins having 13 repeats where each repeat hosted a block of 12 with an expression level of 2.5 g/L using a bioreactor. (62) as we could judge, the authors in the two examples did not use any additional vectors during expression with E. coli to elevate the alanyl- or glycyl-tRNA pool. (42) factor that could explain the loss of expression would be if the longer mini-spidroin variants are toxic to the bacteria, but the exact reason for the abrupt drop in protein expression is not known. system presented here could potentially be improved by screening different bacterial strains and promotors, using a different codon optimization strategy, and possibly also by designing different mini-spidroin variants. , longer repeat regions should result in an increased number of intermolecular interactions and, thereby, stronger fibers. with this, several reports in the scientific literature investigated this aspect, applying all-aqueous and native conditions for expression, purification, and spinning without the use of denaturing agents in any step of the process. al. (48) found a strong dependency of strength and size when inserting aciniform spidroin repeat segments into a mini-spidroin. a small mini-spidroin was spun (45.8 kDa), the resulting fibers had a strength of 52 MPa, but when the repetitive segment was extended, which resulted in a 104 kDa construct, the resulting fibers had a strength of 245 MPa. these results are quite impressive, the expression was overall low, and the larger 104 kDa variant was not soluble in aqueous buffers. In a follow-up study, 44 and 96 kDa recombinant spidroins with repeats from FlSp were spun into fibers. Interestingly, despite the relatively large difference in molecular weight, the fiber strength was moderately increased from 182 to 253 MPa using larger spidroins. same time, these fibers were rather brittle with a strain at break of 12%, which is surprising considering the impressive extensibility of the flagelliform silk. (46) literature, there are also conflicting reports regarding the relationship between the mechanical properties of the fibers. In a study where spidroins containing different lengths of the MaSp1 repeat region were spun into fibers, the largest constructs (60.8 kDa) gave inferior fibers compared to a 42.5 kDa variant, which could be spun into a fiber with a strength of 149 MPa. (47) inconclusive picture of the effect of longer on the mechanical properties could be a result of numerous parameters, which are discussed further below. properties of different spider silks vary significantly, and this is related to differences in the primary structure of the . (22,64) before, the major ampullate silk, made up primarily of MaSps, (65,66) is the strongest of the different silks. (67) The MaSp4 has been identified in the spider species (55,68) and (69) and has been associated with an increased extensibility of the fiber. (55) the influence of MaSp4 our artificial silk is especially interesting because this spidroin type has been scarcely studied. MiSps are the main constituents of the minor ampullate silk, which have a lower tensile strength than major ampullate silk, but increased extensibility. stands out as the most extensible fiber (>200%) of all of the different silk types which relates to the Pro-rich repeat region of the FlSps, while tubuliform silk is intermediate in terms of both strength and strain. (67) Thus, we expected that the insertion of different NT and CT would make the artificial silk fibers substantially different compared to reference NT2RepCT fibers, even more so as we have previously seen a drastic effect by introducing only very few mutations in the NT2RepCT. (52) mini-spidroins containing different spidroin types could all be successfully spun into fibers (Table 2), except for constructs having more than 220 residues in Rep (FlSp_232, MaSp4_252, and TuSp2_345). constructs were classified as not spinnable because the fibers were too fragile to be collected or because of aggregate formation in the spinning dope, as in the case of TuSp2_345, for which extrusion was inhibited due to clogging. eight mini-spidroin variants with from different spidroin types, only MaSp4_125 and MaSp4_175 were significantly stronger. had an average strength of 134 and 143 MPa, respectively, compared to 110 MPa for NT2RepCT (Table 2 and Figure S4). Since NT2RepCT, MaSp4_125, and MaSp4_175 have similar identical terminal domains, the increase in strength could be related to the nature of the MaSp4 repeat. are surprising since the MaSp4 is Pro-rich and void of poly-, which should give a more extensible fiber according to the current structure–function models. from the mini-spidroin constructs MiSp_206, and TuSp_174 were significantly weaker. at break for all constructs with different spidroins was above 83%, which is comparable to NT2RepCT fibers. is the construct TuSp1_174 which resulted in brittle fibers. , we did not achieve mechanical properties that correlated to the behavior of the native silk fibers that the respective repeats were derived from, and moreover, the mechanical properties of the fibers made from the new mini-spidroins were very similar to the mechanical properties of NT2RepCT fibers. , the elastomers tropoelastin and resilin stand out as examples of proteins that are found in tissues with impressive mechanical properties. found in connective tissues and is cross-linked via into elastin. (70) Silk-elastin hybrid materials are frequently described in the literature in the context of making biomaterials, for instance, to assemble tissue scaffolds by electrospinning, (71) to tune the mechanical properties of hydrogels, (72) and for modulating the self-assembly kinetics of silk/elastin hybrids to make nanomaterials. (73) Herein, we could efficiently produce and spin fibers from a 36.5 kDa silk-elastin hybrid protein (Elastin_116), but the longer variant of this protein (Elastin_221) could not be spun into continuous fibers, as was also the case for the longer constructs with other spidroins. Notably, the fibers spun from Elastin_116 proteins were the toughest among all fibers investigated herein, reaching 143 MPa in strength, a strain at break of 105%, a Young’s modulus of 2.9 GPa, and a toughness modulus of 109 MJ/m3. found in elastic tissues of insects and arthropods and the proteins are cross-linked via . (74,75) resilin/silk hybrids have been mainly investigated for their use as biomaterials, (76) but there are also attempts to increase the mechanical properties of silkworm silk by inserting the resilin gene into the silkworm genome. (77) hands, fibers made from a mini-spidroin carrying Resilin (Resilin_142) could be continuously spun. of Resilin_142 fibers was within the experimental error compared to NT2RepCT fibers, but the strain at break was significantly reduced (Figure S4 and Table 2). intention of the present study was to investigate if and how different primary structures of the in mini-spidroins affect the mechanical properties of artificially spun spider silk when using all-aqueous spinning conditions. surprise, the strength of all as-spun fibers using identical spinning conditions was found to be within a rather narrow range of 74–143 MPa. Interestingly, the only constructs that were better in terms of strength compared to the control mini-spidroin NT2RepCT (MaSp1_77) are constructs based on MaSp4 (up 143 MPa) (55) and elastin (143 MPa) (Table 2). the fibers developed herein had a higher strain at break than the control NT2RepCT (113%), but the majority of the constructs (73%) resulted in fibers with a strain at break above 50%. MaSp1_A4 and TuSp1_174 fibers failed at the yielding point. with the highest strength that was significantly different compared to NT2RepCT was made from Elastin_116. at break values of NT2RepCT and Elastin_116 fibers were comparable, as was the toughness modulus (Figure S4). conclude that the mechanical properties of fibers spun from mini-spidroins with diverse primary structures in their repeat regions are surprisingly similar. small improvements we could achieve in this cohort of proteins are in the range that can be achieved when changing the spinning conditions. (51) remains why most mini-spidroins investigated in this study did not give rise to fibers with more diverse mechanical properties and failed to reflect the properties of the respective native silk fibers. for this observation could be that the spinning conditions were not optimized for the respective construct, which could have substantially different optima concerning the buffer type, buffer concentration, pH, extrusion rate, and dope concentration. of all glands, except the major ampullate gland, remains largely unexplored, which means that there may be unknown conditions or components that are important for the correct polymerization of a specific silk type. Specifically, several studies have shown that there are several nonclassical spider silk proteins in the major ampullate silk, all of which have unknown functions. (65,66,78) and the combination of different proteins could potentially be important for the mechanical properties. However, even though the presence of other spidroins and nonspidroins should not be neglected, (65,66) the bulk of each fiber type is made from the corresponding spidroin type, (66) and thus they should be a main contributor to the mechanical properties. to take into account could be that the spidroin terminal domains may have evolved to function optimally with a specific repeat, which could also influence the results as we used the same NT and CT in all protein constructs. contributing factor could be that the repeat regions affect the ability of the mini-spidroins to form liquid–liquid phase-separated (LLPS) droplets before polymerization, which has been suggested to be an important step in the spinning process and deserves further investigation. (50,79−82) Moreover, shear forces are important for alignment and to induce the formation of β-sheets, (83) but the extrusion of the spidroins through the glass capillary used herein may not be enough to align the larger spidroins, thus causing a suboptimal arrangement and as a consequence a weaker fiber is obtained. smaller size of the mini-spidroins compared to the native spidroins could of course also affect the properties of the fiber if they are too short to form correct intermolecular interactions (Figure 2). denaturing conditions for the preparation of the spinning dope, the literature suggests that spidroins with an to native spidroins (up to 300 kDa) are required for making fibers with a strength of 1 GPa. (42,43,63,84) , it may not be too surprising that we could not improve the strength more by spinning longer proteins, as the largest spinnable spidroin in this study had an only 43 kDa. results suggest that there is no correlation between strength and molecular weight (Figure 2), it should be noted that molecular weight difference between the smallest and largest spidroin is only 37%, which may be too little to detect effects of protein molecular weight. shown that the basic NT-Rep-CT construct can host a broad range of different amino acid sequences in the and still maintain the ability to be spun into continuous fibers in our all-aqueous spinning system. Interestingly, we show that the primary structure of the a rather moderate influence on the resulting fibers’ mechanical properties, at least for repeat regions ranging from 32 to 43 kDa. found that spidroins with a molecular weight >45 kDa were difficult to spin in the spinning setup used in this work. , optimizing protein design, spinning methodologies, and postprocessing techniques will be crucial for realizing the full potential of artificial spider silk in various applications. is a self-assembling biopolymer that outperforms most known materials in terms of its mechanical performance, despite its underlying weak chemical bonding based on H-bonds. studies have shown that the molecular structure of silk proteins has a direct influence on the stiffness, toughness and failure strength of silk, no molecular-level analysis of the nanostructure and associated mechanical properties of silk assemblies have been reported. Here, we report atomic-level structures of MaSp1 and MaSp2 proteins from the spider dragline silk sequence, obtained using replica exchange molecular dynamics, and subject these structures to mechanical loading for a detailed nanomechanical analysis. analysis reveals that poly-alanine regions in silk predominantly form distinct and orderly beta-sheet crystal domains, while disorderly regions are formed by glycine-rich repeats that consist of 3₁-helix type structures and beta-turns. predictions are validated against experimental data based on dihedral angle pair calculations presented in , alpha-carbon atomic distances, as well as secondary structure content. simulations on selected structures illustrate that the nanoscale behaviour of silk protein assemblies is controlled by the distinctly different secondary structure content and hydrogen bonding in the crystalline and semi-amorphous regions. and mechanical characterization results show excellent agreement with available experimental evidence. set the stage for extensive atomistic investigations of silk, which may contribute towards an improved understanding of the source of the strength and toughness of this biological superfibre. nanoscale features of biological materials are crucial to understand the source of their mechanical properties such as strength, failure mechanisms and elasticity . materials, the primary structure of macromolecules, consisting of a linear sequence of individual amino acids, describes the chemical specificity of the interactions at the molecular level, which give rise to formation and failure characteristics of the material . is an extraordinary material that surpasses most synthetic fibres in terms of toughness through a balance of ultimate strength and extensibility . of spider silk's unique properties has been attributed to the specific secondary structures of proteins found in the repeating units of spider silk , which assemble into a hierarchical structure shown in figure 1a,b. have thus far primarily focused on developing a mapping between the repeating sequence units of spider silk and the basic structural building blocks of fibrils. proteins are typically found in dragline silks with similar sequences across species . the most studied silk from spiders, dragline silk, contains MaSp1 and MaSp2 proteins, with different repeat units and possibly distinct mechanical functions . MaSp1 contains glycine ( G)-rich Gly–Gly–X (GGX) repeats with poly-alanine ( A) and GA domains, where X typically stands for alanine, tyrosine, leucine or glutamine. Whereas MaSp2 also contains poly-, it has a repeat unit with high proline content in the form of (GPGQQ/GPGGY). -rich segments are intrinsically twisted, which inhibits edge-to-edge aggregation of strands, thereby controlling the location and size of beta-sheet nanocrystals in silk. , bearing sequence resemblance to elastin, are thought to form beta-spiral or type II beta-turn structures that provide extensibility through hidden length formation, and control the unique thermomechanical properties of spider silk . have suggested that MaSp1 is more dominant in the composite morphology of the spider dragline silk than MaSp2, with a ratio of approximately 3 : 2 or higher, depending on the species . revealed that anti-parallel beta-sheet crystals at the nanoscale, consisting of highly conserved poly-(Gly[G]–Ala[A]) and poly- found in both commercial and spider silk , play a key role in defining the mechanical properties of silk by providing stiff orderly cross-linking domains embedded in a semi-amorphous matrix with less orderly structures . have shown that the hydration level and solvent conditions such as ion content and pH play a role in the structure and mechanical properties of silk proteins . , a unique aspect of silk fibres is their capacity to exhibit a dramatic reduction in length upon hydration; a phenomenon known as supercontraction . Beta-sheet nanocrystals that employ a dense network of hydrogen bonds have dimensions of a few nanometres and constitute at least 10–15% of the silk volume, while, with less orderly extended structures, the beta-sheet content can be much higher for most silks . of 31 helices, and beta-turn or beta-spiral conformations has been suggested for the amorphous domains ; however, no definite atomistic-level structural model has yet been reported. anticipated that novel statistical mechanics approaches , experimental methods, such as X-ray diffraction and scattering , solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance and , combined with pioneering multiscale atomistic-modelling methods such as those based on density functional theory or molecular dynamics , will provide more insight into the atomic resolution structure for complex materials such as spider silk. study of silk using replica exchange molecular dynamics has yielded interesting results in comparison with experiments . However, this study was focused solely on the case of MaSp1 and did not encompass any mechanical characterization. the lack of current large-scale atomic resolution models, the links between genetic make-up, chemical interactions and structure, as well as the associated macroscale mechanical properties, remain obscure for silk. studies have focused solely on the well-defined crystalline regions consisting of poly-Ala (spider silk) or poly-Gly– , and studies on the links between structural and nanomechanical features of the nanocomposite structure of silk have remained a challenge. Here, we carry out atomistic simulations to identify nanostructural models of spider silk proteins, with the goal of developing a link between genetic sequence and resulting mechanical properties. of reaching native (equilibrium) structures within the time scales accessible to conventional molecular dynamics simulation require enhanced sampling methods such as REMD . Here, we employ REMD to investigate the structures formed by assemblies of short segments of MaSp1 and MaSp2 proteins. other protein structure prediction approaches , REMD is considered to be an effective tool for investigating folding and aggregation of proteins, as it reduces the likelihood of kinetic trapping at non-native states . Through a fast search of the conformation space at high temperatures and more detailed investigation at low temperatures, it allows the system to overcome energy barriers and local minima corresponding to non-native structures of proteins and facilitates identification of native protein structures from the amino acid sequence with atomistic resolution. approach is summarized in figure 2a. and representative molecular structure results. (a) the approach taken to identify the nanostructure of spider silk proteins, here focused on the MaSp1 and MaSp2 silk sequences from the N. clavipes spider. sections of the MaSp1 and MaSp2 proteins (containing a poly-alanine repeat in the centre) are used as the basic building block. simulations are carried out at multiple temperatures, and an ensemble of most likely, final low-temperature structures are compared with experimental evidence. (b) the natural process of silk assembly (and fibre formation) during which silk proteins are subject to shear. process of shearing and alignment of protein monomers motivates our choice of the initial geometry shown in (a). (c) loading condition employed in our simulations in line with the shear topology of beta-sheet crystals in spider silk. structures (polypeptide sequences) are created with the amino acid sequence of the N. clavipes MaSp1 and MaSp2 proteins, which constitute the majority of the silk's core . The MaSp1 sequence is (in one-letter amino acid codes): GGAGQGGYGGLGSQGAGRGGLGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSQGAGRGGLGGQGAG. The MaSp2 sequence is: GPGQQGPGGYGPGQQGPGGYGPGQQGPSGPGSAAAAAAAAGPGQQGPGGYGPGQQGPGGYGPGQQGPSGPGS. consist of two glycine-rich repeating units surrounding a poly-alanine segment to represent a single monocrystal. MaSp1 protein consists primarily of GGX type repeats followed by a GA and poly-. MaSp2, on the other hand, has proline-rich GPGQQGPGGY repeats, and a poly-. configuration is a lattice structure consisting of an anti-parallel arrangement in one direction and a parallel arrangement in the other. on poly-alanine aggregation suggest that anti-parallel orientation in the hydrogen-bonding direction and parallel stacking in the side-chain direction leads to stable beta-sheets , and hence such an arrangement is considered here to be a good starting point for obtaining assembled structures by silk proteins. initial set-up, each strand is separated by 10 Å in a square lattice (figure 2a). start from an extended conformation, which is very relevant in the processing of silk where elongational flow in the spinning duct leads to stretching and alignment of monomers in the concentrated dope, as shown in recent experimental work . that higher temperature replicas can allow wide sampling around this basic orientation, where chains can rearrange in anti-parallel or parallel orientations as the strands can diffuse within the lattice. -temperature replicas, weak interactions between the strands can be broken; that is, the system ‘melts’ and reforms in a wide range of structures that can be investigated in detail at lower temperatures. A key hypothesis here for using an initial orderly lattice arrangement is that edge-to-edge aggregation of strands—similar to amyloids —is the driving force for formation of mono-crystals, rather than local folding of the backbone onto itself through short turn structures. supported by recent experiments, which suggest that large extensional forces during spinning and high concentration of the dope are requirements for crystal formation . is reasonable in the context of a monocrystal study as pursued here, and does not rule out the possibility of the formation of folded intramolecular contacts at longer length scales. also suggests that strand orientation in the proximity of the crystals is aligned more or less parallel to the fibre axis, also supporting this initial configuration . Here, we present our structural predictions and compare the results with experimental evidence. primarily on torsion angles and secondary structures of most common amino acids, since this approach allows for a direct quantitative comparison that is independent of the size of the system studied. majority of silk consists of glycine and alanine amino acids, we directly compare the dihedral angles of glycine and alanine residues with experimental data on spider silk proteins. For MaSp1 alanine residues (figure 3a), we observe that the most common φ–Ψ angle value is around (−150, 135), in excellent agreement with experimental findings that suggested (−135, 150), corresponding to a beta-sheet structure. (figure 3b), our results show a symmetry around the origin, where we observe a wide distribution around approximately (+/−75, −/+75), in agreement with experimental findings around that also have symmetry. are observed for MaSp2 (figure 3c–d); however, a wider distribution of glycine dihedral angles is evident from the . resulting structures for MaSp1 and MaSp2 with experimental data for validation. (a–d) residues, we observe that the most common φ–Ψ angle value is around (−150, 135), in excellent agreement with experimental findings that suggested (−135, 150), corresponding to a beta-sheet structure. residues, we observe a wide distribution around approximately (+/ − 75, − / + 75) with symmetry around the origin, in line with experimental findings around (+/60, − / + 135) that also show symmetric distribution. distributions in MaSp2 may be due to a more amorphous structure caused by high proline content. (e) distribution of proline residues cluster around (−60, −30) and (−60, 120), which correspond to type I and type II beta-turn conformations, respectively. of the poly-alanine regions to beta-sheet conformation is straightforward from the data on alanine residues for both structures, the glycine regions require more data to be able to distinguish them within common protein structures. A close look at proline residues in MaSp2 shows peaks around (−60, −30) and (−60, 120), corresponding to type I and type II beta-turns that would incorporate adjacent . ensemble of structures obtained from MaSp1 replica exchange simulations, we consider the alpha-carbon atom distances between glycine residues that are three residues apart, to characterize the basic repeat unit length of the GGX domains. distribution of Cα(i)–Cα(i + 3) distances measured from atomic coordinates has a distinct peak around 9 Å. is greater than most known beta-turn structures and falls short of the anti-parallel beta-sheet conformations that typically exceed 10 Å. have interchain hydrogen bonding that is less oriented and sparser. these observations, we conclude that these disorderly structures in MaSp1 resemble the characteristics of 31-helices, which are the most probable conformations taken by Gly-rich domains, supporting earlier hypotheses reported in the literature . of hydrogen bonding in these regions is significantly reduced compared with the orderly network in beta-sheet nanocrystals, suggesting that moderating the number and orientation of intermolecular interactions leads to the characteristic heterogeneous structural arrangement observed in silks. purposes, a representative collection of selected structures (see §2) obtained from the simulations is shown in figure 4, where percentages of different secondary structures are illustrated in each subpanel (i–v). MaSp1 and MaSp2, a significant percentage of residues are found to be in semi-extended, disorderly conformations in agreement with the discussion put forth based on experimental studies . suggest that poly-alanine regions have an extremely high propensity for aggregating into crystalline beta-sheet structures by inter-strand hydrogen bond formation and inter-sheet stacking in the side-chain direction. glycine regions that also form extended regions, the beta-sheet percentage ranges from 28 to 55 per cent for the sequences studied in this work. compare well with recent NMR studies on dragline silk, which have indicated 34 per cent beta-sheet content . orderly domain is dispersed within the glycine-rich repeat units, which are still fairly oriented but much less orderly, forming more amorphous structures. A key finding from the secondary structure content analysis is the lack of any alpha-helix conformation of the MaSp1 and MaSp2 silk constituents, supporting a wide range of experimental evidence that ruled out this conformation . Instead, our results suggest that disorderly structures resembling 31-helices and beta-turns dominate non-beta-sheet conformations in these proteins. content of proline in MaSp2 leads to more disorderly structures in amorphous regions and well-defined beta-sheet crystal regions. evident from both the lower ratio of beta-sheets in this sequence, and also the shorter lengths of beta-strands when comparing MaSp1 structures in figure 4a with those of MaSp2 in figure 4b. distribution of selected protein assemblies. the most representative structures from the lowest temperature replica, and calculate the secondary structure distribution for (a) MaSp1 and (b) MaSp2 protein assemblies. (i–v) most likely structures selected for each sequence. is based on structural configuration, in which yellow represents beta-sheet and extended structures. (a) structures for MaSp1. of the structures are observed to be in beta-sheet or beta-turn conformation, and, for MaSp1 (a), the beta-sheet content is higher than for MaSp2 (b) owing to the lack of proline residues that reduce chain aggregation into sheets. content of secondary structure controls the mechanical properties of protein assemblies, in which greater crystallinity typically means greater strength, whereas turn structures provide hidden length required for extensibility and toughness. (b) for MaSp2. consistently show that poly- form highly orderly beta-sheet crystals whereas the glycine-rich repeat units are less orderly, forming more amorphous domains. Altogether, the structure identification and comparison with available experimental results suggest that the models obtained from our simulations resemble those found in native spider silk. Overall, crystal structures consisting of poly- have the size of 2–3 nm in the chain direction, with partial beta-sheet domains in semi-crystalline regions, particularly for MaSp1. 2–4 sheets (1–2 nm) and up to eight strands per sheet (2–4 nm) are observed in simulations (but these values may increase if the number of chains considered is increased). domains are semi-extended, and the average lateral length per residue for both structures emerges as around 2–3 nm, which is shorter than fully extended structures that would require more than 3 nm length. not observe larger folds where sheets are formed by polypeptide strands through self-interactions, but such morphologies cannot be ruled out considering that actual spider silk sequences are much longer and therefore more flexible than the short segments we have studied here. regard, this study sets the stage now to explore the mechanical properties of both the MaSp1 and MaSp2 structures using ultra-large-scale molecular dynamics simulations. with carrying out constant loading rate mechanical shear simulations on the selected structures, where randomly selected strands are pulled in opposite directions to mimic the relevant lateral (shear) loading conditions of small crystals in spider silk. force–displacement curves from these simulations are shown in figure 5a,b. Both MaSp1 and MaSp2 show a characteristic smooth curve with three regimes, where the relative moduli of these regimes depend on the secondary structure content. with high turn ratio and low beta-sheet content (see MaSp1-IV and MaSp2-II), we observe an initial stiff regime, followed by a softer regime, followed by a very stiff regime leading to failure. other hand, systems with very high beta-sheet content (MaSp1-I, MaSp2-I) show a monotonically stiffening force–extension response. that the characteristic yielding behaviour at the molecular level of the hierarchy of silk is controlled by the ratio of turn to beta-sheet structures, where a higher turn ratio leads to the emergence of this phenomenon. an alternative means of achieving high initial stiffness in comparison with, for instance, the MaSp1-I structure, which has more beta-sheet content and therefore exhibits high initial stiffness as well, but provides much less extensibility. that MaSp1 generally exhibits a larger deviation in the initial end-to-end length, owing to the wider secondary structure distribution. of this is evident from the analysis displayed in figure 5c, which illustrates the yielding behaviour of both structures and much larger variation in response in MaSp1, where increasing the turn content and inter-chain hydrogen bonding increases the initial stiffness and extensibility of the assembly, thereby improving the toughness as well. strengths of MaSp1 and MaSp2 seem to be similar in our simulations, as shown in figure 5d. Force–displacement curves for selected structures. illustrates the response of selected structures to shear forces applied to alternating strands. shown are the loads applied per polypeptide strand. the plots obtained from MaSp1 (a) and MaSp2 (b). cause tensile stretching of the strands, in which a strain stiffening behaviour is evident once the chain reaches a certain length, independent of the chain's initial stretch state. are similar for MaSp1 and MaSp2; however, it depends on the secondary structure content of the system. MaSp1 structures have a large variation on beta-sheet versus turn content, which leads to distinctly different mechanical responses (c). indicate cases having the largest turn content, whereas dashed lines indicate structures with more beta-sheets. turn ratio increases, an initial stiff regime, followed by softening, followed by a stiff bond stretching regime is observed. structures, the initial stiff regime disappears and the typical strain stiffening behaviour of polypeptide chains can be observed. of this difference is the existence of denser hydrogen bonding in amorphous regions owing to turn formation, which leads to higher stiffness and energy dissipation for structures containing more turns. variation of turn and beta-sheet content in MaSp2 leads to the reduced variation of the mechanical response for this structure. be inferred from (d), the failure strength of both structures is more or less the same, as expected from the sequence similarity of the alanine-rich crystalline regions controlling the onset of failure. the structural transformations and failure mechanisms can be observed from the trajectories obtained from stretching simulations of the spider silk assemblies. Figure 6a,b(i–v) shows snapshots of deformation from MaSp1 and MaSp2 stretching simulations. from the snapshots and the analysis presented in figure 7a,b, amorphous domains stretch significantly with applied force, and a transition from turn to beta-sheet structures can be observed for both MaSp1 and MaSp2 (the regime just before the point is marked by a red arrow in figure 7). cent change seems to be larger for MaSp2, since in their unstretched configuration proline residues act as beta-sheet breakers. A key observation is that failure of the system happens by sliding of strands with respect to each other, which can occur only upon breaking of the hydrogen bonds in the crystalline domain. simulations, failure occurs at the interface region with solvent at the boundary of the crystal, leaving part of the crystal intact even after failure. structural transformation of the proteins. illustrates the stretching behaviour of the amorphous domains and crystals under shear forces for (a) MaSp1 and (b) MaSp2. (i–v) sequence of events during the stretching simulations. from the time sequence of snapshots (i–v), amorphous domains stretch significantly, and a transition from turn to beta-sheet structures is observed. The GGX repeats in MaSp1 are capable of forming beta-sheets during stretching, whereas this is observed to a lesser extent in MaSp2, in particular at low extension. A key observation is that failure of the system happens by sliding of strands with respect to each other upon breaking of the hydrogen bonds and side-chain contacts in the crystalline domain. occurs at the interface region with solvent at the boundary of the crystal, leaving part of the crystal intact even after failure of the structure. are shown from MaSp1 and MaSp2 structures with the highest turn content. (a) and (b) shows the strain softening behaviour that occurs when the turn/beta-sheet ratio is high in the initial structures. yielding, the number of hydrogen bonds in the system and also the turn content decreases; however, further stretching leads to a slight increase in the number of H-bonds and formation of beta-sheet structures in the amorphous region. followed by a final stiff regime dominated by the stretching of covalent bonds, which ultimately leads to rapid rupture of many hydrogen bonds (shown with a red arrow) in the non-crystalline domains. fails upon breaking of hydrogen bonds in the crystal, and sliding of beta-strands. sigmoidal force–extension behaviour observed here for both structures shows resemblance to the macroscale response of spider silk. (a,b) , turn; red line, beta-sheet. from MaSp1 and MaSp2 structures with highest turn content are shown in figure 7. A comparison of figure 7a and b shows the strain-softening behaviour that occurs when the turn/beta-sheet ratio is high in both structures. yielding, the number of hydrogen bonds in the system and also the turn content decrease, as shown in figure 7a,b, respectively, for MaSp1 and MaSp2. leads to a slight increase in the number of H-bonds and formation of beta-sheet structures in the amorphous region. followed by a final stiff regime dominated by the stretching of covalent bonds, which ultimately leads to rapid rupture of many hydrogen bonds (shown with a red arrow) in the non-crystalline domains. Eventually, a final stiff regime is reached where covalent bonds in the peptide backbone are stretched out (regime after the point marked by a red arrow in figure 7), which initiates rapid rupture of many hydrogen bonds in the amorphous domains. fails upon breaking of hydrogen bonds in the crystal and the subsequent sliding of strands. sigmoidal behaviour of the force–displacement graphs observed here for both structures agrees qualitatively with the macroscale response of spider silk. presented results from atomistic simulations on MaSp1 and MaSp2 protein segments of the spider dragline silk from N. clavipes. illustrated that the REMD simulation method establishes an atomistic basis for a wide variety of findings from experimental studies of the silk nanostructure. from secondary structure and dihedral angle analyses have shown that poly- in MaSp1 and MaSp2 form beta-sheet crystals, whereas the glycine-rich regions form semi-extended 31 helix type structures as well as beta-turns (figure 3). show no evidence for the existence of alpha-helix or beta-helix structures in MaSp1 and MaSp2 repeating units. confirm that MaSp1 and MaSp2 form different nanostructures. MaSp1 tends to form more orderly extended structures with beta-sheet domains, whereas turn structures and a greater level of amorphousness are observed in MaSp2, owing to the natural twist of the proline segments, which limits the crystalline fraction of the protein assemblies (figures 3 and 4). of semi-extended domains in the amorphous matrix may be the molecular source of the large semi-crystalline fraction observed in silks, and also form the basis of the so-called ‘pre-stretched’ molecular configuration . of less dense hydrogen bonding in glycine-rich regions compared with alanine-rich regions indicates at least a two-phase system with complementary mechanical functions: extensibility and fracture strength. more evident in MaSp2, which has apparent features resulting from the proline-rich sequence, such as higher disorder and well-defined crystal regions. importance for this effect is the lack of amide bonds and the torsional twisting at proline sites, which control morphology development as the proline residues have varying capacity to form hydrogen bonding at different extension states. actual morphology of dragline silk, both proteins can be observed at varying amounts depending on the species . study focused on isolated systems of MaSp1 and MaSp2, but the same simulation protocol can be applied to understand the structure and behaviour of mixed systems, and the possible role of proline in controlling intermolecular contacts between MaSp1 and MaSp2. Overall, the results reported here are strongly supportive of experimental findings on the spider dragline silk that suggest similar structural characteristics, in particular the existence of a Gly-rich amorphous phase and Ala-rich crystalline phase . spidroins are large proteins with an extension of 250-350 kDa, with an average of 3500 amino acids. a polymeric organization, mostly based on highly homogenized tandem repeats. 100 tandem copies of 30 to 40 amino acids which repeat sequence and they represent more than 90% of the protein sequence. glycine residues are the most abundant amino acids in these proteins. in blocks of six to fourteen units that form β-sheets. blocks can stack to create crystalline structures in the fiber, linking different protein molecules together. present in different motifs, such as GGX and GPGXX (where X = A, L, Q, or Y), that also have specific secondary structures (310-helix and β-spiral, respectively). Glycine-rich regions are more amorphous and contribute to extensibility and flexibility. the differences observed between spidroin 1 and spidroin 2 (the most important major ampullate spidroins) are the proline content, which is very low in the first one but significant in the second one, and the motifs. Motif (GGX)n is characteristic in spidroin 1, while GPG and QQ are typical in spidroin 2. stretching simulations hint towards a sigmoidal constitutive behaviour as observed in the macroscale response of spider silk, as shown in figure 5c. provide insight into the nanoscale deformation mechanisms, as shown in the simulation snapshots in figure 6 and the detailed analysis in figure 7. that the initial softening of the system is governed by hydrogen bond breaking in the amorphous domain. is observed once the covalent chains are highly extended after rupture of a large number of hydrogen bonds in the non-crystalline domains. failure of the system occurs when strands begin to slide across each other owing to severed hydrogen bonds and side-chain interactions in the crystal. the initial end-to-end length of the systems studied ranges from 8 nm to 14 nm and failure occurs at around 25 nm or more, the failure strains observed here seem to be much larger than that of experimental studies that show failure strains around 40 per cent . of this discrepancy may be several factors in our simulations that differ from experiments. First, the results for strain will depend on sequence; here, we study two amorphous domains and one crystal domain, hence our system is likely to be more extensible. reason is that, in the actual morphology of silk, there will be heterogeneity and defects, and orientation of the forces with respect to chains will not be perfect. Hence, the extensibility of the chains will be further reduced, as they will slide across each other more easily in non-uniform loading. A third possible reason is that current simulations correspond to hydrated systems with no control on prestretching. the strands during silk synthesis may contribute to the lower failure strain of the actual systems. and upscaling of our results will have to be done to make a rigorous link between nanoscale results and macroscale experiments. strength of the molecular assembly shows less variation between sequences; rather, it is observed to depend more on the morphology of the crystal and the amorphous structures. our simulations, we note that mechanical stretching of the strands may play a role in controlling crystal size, where compression in the transverse direction causes collapse of the crystals into a more compact formation. be an important consideration for the influence of mechanical strain on the morphology of the silk crystals . silk is the most extensible silk fiber produced by orb weaver spiders, though not as strong as the dragline silk of the spider. found in the core of the flagelliform are GGX, spacer, and GPGGX. not contain the polyalanine motif known to provide the strength of dragline silk. the source of flagelliform fiber strength, four recombinant proteins were produced containing variations of the three core motifs of the flagelliform that produces this type of fiber. -spun fibers were processed in 80% aqueous isopropanol using a standardized process for all four fiber types, which produced improved mechanical properties. of the recombinant proteins determined that the GGX motif contributes extensibility and the spacer motif contributes strength to the recombinant fibers. fibers containing the spacer motif were stronger than the proteins constructed without the spacer that contained only the GGX motif or the combination of the GGX and GPGGX motifs. and structural X-ray diffraction analysis of the recombinant fibers provide data that suggests a functional role of the spacer motif that produces tensile strength, though the spacer motif is not clearly defined structurally. indicate that the spacer is likely a primary contributor of strength, with the GGX motif supplying mobility to the protein network of native N. clavipes flagelliform silk fibers. spider silk is a tough proteinaceous fiber produced by orb weaver spiders to make the capture spiral of the orb web. (1, 2) can produce six different types of silk fibers, each originating from different silk-specific glands with different mechanical and biochemical properties. (3-6) sequences of various silks of different species of orb weaver spiders revealed repetitive elastic motifs and modules. (7-9) sequence motifs are similar between species however actual amino acid sequences differ. of spider silk protein is limited, yet there is much to be learned. (10) silk sequences from were used in our study. is composed of a single very large repetitive protein, Flag. The N. clavipes is approximately 360 kDa in size with a glycine-rich protein core that forms 90% of the protein. (7, 8) dominate the : GPGGX, GGX (X = A, S, V, and Y in GPGGX or T in GGX), and a glycine poor “spacer” (Figure 2). the GPGGX motif, (GPGGX)n, provide elasticity and extensibility produced from type II β-turns, (29-31) generating β-turn nanospring structures. (18, 19, 32, 33) The β-turn generated structures are similar to those found in the elastic proteins elastin and gluten. (29, 30, 34) The (GPGGX)43–62 extensibility regions comprise 75% of the total and are linked to a noniterated spacer by a comparably smaller string of the iterated GGX motifs (GGX)7–12 (Figure 2). charged spacer motif, composing collectively 7.5% of the protein core in near equal proportion to the (GGX)7–12 motifs, interrupts the long glycine rich arrays. protein contains up to 14 repeats of the [(GPGGX)n (GGX)n spacer]n ensemble. (7, 8) nonrepetitive flanking C- and N-termini regions of dragline and flagelliform proteins were suggested to control solubility and fiber formation in native spider silk (35) and also in recombinant silk proteins in solution. (36-38) silk fibers that contained the C-terminal domain had increased extensibility over fibers that did not contain the terminal domain. (39) spider silk-like proteins have been shown to form fibers without the inclusion of the terminal sequences. (27, 40-43) varying degrees of resolubility were produced from “tunable” silk-elastin protein polymers that were constructed with variations of silk and elastin sequences. (44) exhibits six times the elasticity and one-fourth the strength of dragline silk. of dragline silk is attributed to the polyalanine “strength” motifs, (A)n/(GA)n, that form stacked crystalline β-sheet structures that align parallel to the axis of the fiber. (15, 45-49) However, the does not contain this typical polyalanine strength motif found in other silks. suggest β-sheet structure attributed to the spacer motif confers strength to the flagelliform fibers. (50) of flagelliform silk is associated with other elastic proteins such as the resilin protein that was found to be an amorphous random network that may consist of a sliding β-turn model structure. (51) extensibility of the is important, yet the source of its strength has remained a mystery. study, four N. clavipes Flag-like protein variants were designed to investigate the motif contributions to mechanical properties of the spacer motif of the flagelliform . the GGX motif were designed and engineered into all four encoding DNA constructs to create the GGX series of Flag-like sequences. -spacer and/or iterations of the (GPGGX)8 motif module were designed into three of the encoding (GGX)7 module containing constructs and produced in . recombinant silk proteins generated liquid spin dopes for fiber spinning. A standard spinning method was used to generate all fibers. fibers were stretched in aqueous alcohol and air-dried. were tested mechanically and the resulting fiber data was compared to each other. X-ray diffraction analysis was used to investigate structure. the Flag-like motif content and function in the recombinant proteins, the data were correlated with the similar motif content of the native . help demonstrate the motif contributions of the native fibers through the use of the recombinant Flag-like protein fibers. of four Flag-like protein variants were designed to investigate structure/function relationships in the flagelliform spider silk protein, N. clavipes. nature of the elasticity of this silk is attributed to the presence and abundance of the (GPGGX)n motif, the source of its high tensile strength as well as its mode of self-assembly are largely unexplored. engineered G, GY, GF, and GFY Flag-like repetitive DNA sequences were successfully cloned into E. coli producing the corresponding His-tagged proteins with expected molecular weights ranging from 54 to 66 kDa (Table 1). production levels varied between the various clone types: G 50 μg/L, GY 500 μg/L, GF 5 μg/L, and GFY 50 μg/L. containing GF and GFY proteins were only observed as dimers with analysis, while the GY protein produced predominantly monomers with minimal truncated product. were observed for the G protein, but it primarily produced dimers. structure of these proteins included repeating modules containing all (i.e., GFY) or some (i.e., G, GY and GF) of the following native motifs (Figure 2): the G module or (GGX)7, the F module or “spacer”, and the Y module, which is one of the putative (GPGGX)8 motifs, (GPGGY GPGGS)4. (7) study, only the roles of structural domains present in the large highly repetitive core of the native were investigated, as this region constitutes the majority (90%) of the primary sequence of this native silk protein. , this repetitive core is thought to be the main contributor to the mechanical properties of the fibers. (7, 8) The pH gradient of the spider silk gland was previously shown to affect or promote fiber formation. (38, 65, 66) on the nonrepetitive flanking regions has suggested an in vivo aggregation role in fiber formation. (35) Recently, it was reported that the flanking regions of recombinant proteins in solution drive fiber formation. (36, 37) However, many studies have shown that these flanking regions are not necessary in the recombinant silk proteins to allow fiber formation. (27, 40, 41, 43, 52, 67) sake of the targeted structural motif study, the N- and C-terminal ends were not included in our silk protein sequences design. the four protein variants was successfully spun into synthetic fibers. as-spun (AS) fibers were brittle; therefore, postspin draw processing was necessary to produce fibers with improved mechanical properties (Table 2). (40) data was collected for the G and GY AS fibers, as these were too brittle to test. The AS fibers averaged 27.24 to 36.81 μm in diameter. G, GY, GF, and GFY fibers were spun and dried, stretching the fibers in aqueous isopropanol (IPA) containing no more that 20% (v/v) water was the best processing treatment for all four different fiber types (Figure 6). would dissolve completely in aqueous IPA with higher than 20% water content. fiber diameter of the PSD fibers ranged from 13.31 to 21.46 μm (Table 2). AS fibers became malleable when submersed in 80% IPA and were easily processed. However, all four synthetic fiber types were still soluble in water after PSD processing, unlike what has been reported for both native regenerated silks and synthetic Flag/MaSp 2 silk fibers. (26, 27) of the processed fibers suggests that the proteins in the PSD fibers may not have yet reached the structural transitions and optimal molecular alignment found in the native fibers. synthetic fibers clearly indicate that under these artificial spinning conditions, the structural domains present in the repetitive core of the are able to drive recombinant silk protein aggregation. either is driven by the domains independently, as seen for the G protein with only the G module or synergistically for proteins that contain both the F and G modules. do not exclude the potential additional involvement of the conserved N- and/or C-termini regions in the in vivo mechanism of silk protein regulation, aggregation, and fiber formation. (36-38) However, the investigation of these conserved regions was not the focus of our study. of our fiber spinning investigation are in line with those published on fibers produced from MaSp-like or Flag/MaSp2 chimeric proteins, which also focused on the structural study of the repetitive silk core. (27, 41, 43, 63) the mechanical data within each fiber group is noticeable judging by the standard deviations of all mean values (Table 2). not unexpected, as similar observations were reported for the mechanical performance of native (68) and synthetic silk fibers. (27, 43) no variation stems from the spinning process, as these conditions were constant for all fiber groups. and manual processing of the AS fibers may be the most likely identifiable contributing factors of data variation as previously suggested. (27) generated by processing is further supported by recent work showing that protein processing influences native spider silk performance. (69) the mechanical data show that statistically significant differences in mechanical properties exist between the synthetic PSD fibers. of the tensile strength data divided the four fiber types into two groups, the weaker GY and G fibers (p-value = 0.18), and the stronger GFY and GF fibers (p-value = 0.26) strongly suggesting that strength is derived from the spacer. Additionally, the extensibility for the PSD fibers were significantly different except between the GY and GF PSD fibers (p-value = 0.28; Table 2 and , Table S1). appreciate these differences, the stress/strain performances of the strongest or the most extensible PSD fibers for each variant protein fiber type were compared (Figure 7). suggest that the differences in mechanical properties observed are associated with the variation of the structural motif content within the G, GY, GF, and GFY proteins (Table 2 and Figure 7), thus, corresponding with variations in the silk protein primary structure. Interestingly, the presence of the (GGX)7 motif module provides superior extensibility, over 2-fold, as shown best by the differences in extensibility between the top performing G PSD fibers and both the GY and GF PSD fibers (Figure 7). of its low tensile strength, the G PSD fibers display enhanced extensibility, which is near that of native flagelliform fibers and makes them the second toughest synthetic fibers behind the GFY PSD fibers (Table 2). Furthermore, the addition of the (GPGGX)8 motif in the GY proteins reduces the extensibility of the PSD GY fibers 3-fold, compared to that of the G PSD fibers, though it does not significantly affect their tensile strength (Figure 7, Table 2). The GY protein, with its β-turn/β-spiral forming (GPGGX)8 motif was actually expected to produce a more extensible PSD GY fiber than PSD fibers made from the G protein. However, these GY PSD fibers were among the least extensible fibers and had the lowest toughness of all. that an integral part of the protein function is missing in the GY fibers, limiting what could have been superior extensibility from the high percentage of (GPGGX)8 content comparatively. role of the spacer in the recombinant protein is apparent in the increased tensile strength and moderately restricted extensibility of the fibers. best demonstrated by the higher tensile strength achieved by the GF and GFY PSD fibers (up to 3-fold) compared to those recorded for the G and GY PSD fibers (Table 2 and Figure 7). -off for these stronger GF and GFY PSD fibers seems to be a pronounced reduction in fiber extensibility suggestive of intermolecular interactions attributed to the spacer motif. The GFY PSD fibers achieved the second greatest extensibility. reinforces the idea that the key role played by the spacer (F) promotes or stabilizes the proper secondary structures in the two adjacent modules in the GFY protein, producing the toughest PSD fibers. important to note that the toughest fibers were produced from the GFY protein, which had a primary sequence that most closely resembled that of the native . of the three motif modules, G, F, and Y, in the GFY protein, may complete a more functional molecular unit. may provide the complex, synergistic role that concertedly provides optimal tensile strength and extensibility similar to that found in the native silk fibers. correct combination, the function of the synthetic molecules orchestrates the optimal fiber, yet independently, or in combinations such that when one motif element is missing, the mechanical properties of the fibers are significantly affected. amorphous structure of flagelliform silk may be partly explained by the elasticity mechanism for elastomeric protein polymers such as resilin. (70) elastomeric model or the sliding β-turn model describing the random network structure of recombinant resilins may be useful in better understanding the in the future. (51) appears that the induces increased order of the overall protein structure in the fiber based on the mechanical property contributions, further investigations are needed to better understand the structure and function relationship of flagelliform silk. The N. clavipes Flag-like silk proteins designed with four motif-variation combinations of the flagelliform Flag GGX (G), spacer (F), and GPGGX (Y) motifs produced fibers with differing mechanical properties. from proteins containing the spacer motif clearly produced the strongest fibers and maintained high extensibility. from proteins composed of only the GGX motif produced the most extensible fibers, likely due in part to the reduced interactions between the proteins facilitating molecular mobility. evidenced by the great extensibility of the protein fibers containing solely GGX motif repeats. The GGX motif has the potential to form helices and β-sheets and facilitate structural alignment of other motifs that may form β-sheets, nanosprings, or other structures, tethering the structures together while acting as a flexible connector. (13, 75) support an amorphous random network polymer containing nanostructures. (51) on the GGX motif, focusing on the variations in the amino acids of the X position may find multiple structures with varying functions attributed to this single GGX motif. fiber, GFY, with the greatest strength and moderate extensibility was produced from the only protein containing all three of the motifs. only two of the three core motifs (GY and GF) exhibited restricted extensibility and reduced strength. a more optimal concerted molecular arrangement of the GFY proteins over those proteins in the G, GY, and GF fibers. motif therefore may function as a “strength-motif” in these Flag-like proteins due in part to β-sheet formation and diverse sequence complexity. are needed to determine more specifically how the spacer motif confers mechanical properties to the silk fibers. native flagelliform silk, the roll of the spacer motif is likely functioning in a similar fashion as the polyalanine strength-motif functions in dragline silk, in agreement with recent findings from the analysis of native Flag. (50) -motif found in N. clavipes flagelliform sequences may also hold true in other orb weaver species with similar motifs. expect variations in the sequences to account for variations in the mechanical properties of different flagelliform silks. suggest the Flag GGX motif contributes extensibility and the spacer motif contributes strength to N. clavipes flagelliform spider silk fibers. Unfortunately, the limitations of current technology do not allow the elucidation of fine structural differences for proteins within thin fibers. (50) will be necessary to elucidate and confirm the specific structures as technology and methods advance. The β-sheet is the key structure underlying the excellent mechanical properties of spider silk. However, the comprehensive mechanism underlying β-sheet formation from soluble silk proteins during the transition into insoluble stable fibers has not been elucidated. Notably, the assembly of repetitive domains that dominate the length of the protein chains and structural features within the spun fibers has not been clarified. determine the conformation and dynamics of the soluble precursor of the repetitive domain of spider silk using solution-state NMR, far-UV circular dichroism and vibrational circular dichroism. repetitive domain contains two major populations: ~65% random coil and ~24% polyproline type II helix (PPII helix). The PPII helix conformation in the glycine-rich region is proposed as a soluble prefibrillar region that subsequently undergoes intramolecular interactions. unravel the mechanism underlying the initial step of β-sheet formation, which is an extremely rapid process during spider silk assembly. has attracted great interest because of its superior mechanical properties and potential for industrial and biomedical applications. silks consist of high-molecular-weight proteins (250–350 kDa) that contain conserved and relatively small N-terminal domains (NTDs) and C-terminal domains (CTDs) (16.5 and 10.5 kDa, respectively), as well as a long repetitive domain2,3. structure of silk fibers has been characterized using solid-state NMR and X-ray diffraction4,5,6,7. identified in the repetitive domain are mainly composed of polyalanine stretches (4–12 alanine residues), which form β-sheets in a crystalline region, and the glycine-rich region (GGX), which exhibits 31-helix structures in an amorphous region. being spun into insoluble fibers, the precursors of dragline silk are stored as a highly concentrated protein solution in the major ampullate gland. have shown that the NTD and CTD display strong pH dependence in terms of conformation and are essential for controlling the pH-dependent assembly of silk proteins10,11,12,13. of the highly conserved CTD of dragline silk is also important for directing fiber formation in vivo14. Although, the conserved NTD and CTD play important roles in spider silk protein self-assembly, the conformational details and role of the long repetitive domain in the soluble form are less well defined and are the focus of the present study for several important reasons. First, several studies have reported that in the absence of the CTD and NTD, a long repetitive domain of spidroin is still able to form fibers15,16,17, and number of the repetitive domains are proportional to the strength of the recombinant silk fibers15,16. Second, although several studies have indicated that the CTD and NTD are important for maintaining the solubility of spider silk in the major ampullate gland, the size of the CTD and NTD is much smaller than that of the repetitive domain. Therefore, the high solubility of spider silk in the ampullate gland and the fiber-forming processes likely do not depend solely on the CTD and NTD. Furthermore, the dominating role of the repetitive domain in terms of the size and fiber functions suggests that additional insights are needed in these regions of silk proteins. these points, we hypothesized that the conformation of the soluble repetitive domain plays a significant role in fiber formation and determines the high solubility of spider silk. point is that the conformation of the soluble precursor of spidroin (spider silk protein), particularly for the repetitive domain, remains unclear. dichroism (VCD) spectroscopy data revealed the presence of PPII helix and random coil structures in soluble dragline silks18; whereas, NMR data of 13C-labeled spidroin from spider glands indicated that these proteins only consist of random coil conformations, which are highly dynamic9,19,20. However, the mechanism underlying the structural transition from disordered conformations to stable spider silk fibers with a β-sheet structure remains unclear because this transformation might lead to nonspecific aggregation. Therefore, we address a fundamental and specific question: is the repetitive domain fully a random coil or does it possess a certain regularity in structure in the soluble form that might explain the mechanism of transformation of soluble spider silk to insoluble silk fibers? Although, the NTD and CTD display pH-dependent conformations, the pH-gradient effect in the gland on the repetitive domain of spider silk proteins remains unknown. of the pH effect on the repetitive domain was highlighted in a recent report, which demonstrated the importance of dityrosine formation in the repetitive domain of silkworm silk to promote β-sheet formation21. of dityrosine in the repetitive domain was catalyzed by the presence of peroxidase21, in which the activity of peroxidase is optimal at a slightly acidic pH (pH 6.0–6.5)22. Thus, investigations of the pH effect on the conformation of the repetitive domain might be useful for identifying the comprehensive mechanism of β-sheet formation of spider silk, which until now has remained poorly understood. study, we investigated the molecular conformation and dynamics of different numbers of repetitive domains of dragline silk at neutral pH using solution-state NMR, far-UV circular dichroism (CD) and VCD spectroscopies. demonstrate that the repetitive domain of dragline silk consists of two major populations: random coil (~65%) and PPII helix (~24%). that the PPII helix population in the glycine-rich region might serve as the prefibrillar form of spider dragline silk and may contribute to the efficiency of the spinning process because the PPII helix can easily undergo intramolecular interactions in response to shear forces and dehydration by forming a reverse turn. Additionally, the limited flexibility of the glycine-rich region might function to maintain the solubility of spider silk in the ampullate gland. pH titration studies of the repetitive domain at acidic pH values (from 7 down to 2.6 to emulate events in the gland in vivo) show no conformational change, suggesting that the pH changes in the spinning gland does not affect this prefibrillar form. provide new insights into the initiation step of rapid β-sheet formation in spider silk proteins. lengths of the recombinant repetitive domain (i.e., monomer, dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer) were expressed using BL21(DE3). domain of spidroins were designed based on the amino acid sequence of major ampullate spidroin 1 (MaSp1) from (Fig. 1a). was evaluated by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) (. 1). , dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer could be concentrated to 2.2 mM (for 15-mer, concentration ~100 g L−1) without any detectable precipitation. Additionally, pH titration (from 2.6 to 11.3) of the 15-mer did not cause observable precipitation. structural propensities of the repetitive domain of spider silk at low concentrations (15–35 μM) were determined via CD spectroscopy. spectra had a minimum at ~200 nm, which is typical of an intrinsically disordered protein23,24. , the spectra of the dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer demonstrated minima at ~196 nm; in particular, the CD spectra of the hexamer and 15-mer displayed small but detectable maxima at ~215 nm (Fig. 1b), which is consistent with the PPII helix conformation23,24. Consistently, the CD spectra of multiple repetitive domains (dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer) detected minima similar to those of the spectra of regenerated spider silk proteins from in fresh conditions (incubation time t = 0)25. of the PPII helix population of the repetitive domains was evaluated in D2O at a high concentration (8 mM) via VCD spectroscopy in the amide I region corresponding to the carbonyl stretch. The VCD spectrum of the 15-mer at pH 7 and 25 °C in the amide I region demonstrated a maximum at 1662 cm−1 and an observable minimum at 1636 cm−1 (Fig. 1c), suggesting the presence of the PPII helix18,26. , the delta absorbance of the VCD spectrum of the monomer decreased significantly, indicating that the monomer predominantly contains the unordered random coil population rather than the PPII helix population27. Thus, the presence of the PPII helix population in the 15-mer at neutral pH was confirmed via CD and VCD. is consistent with a previous study reporting the presence of the PPII helix population of intact native spider dragline silk using VCD spectroscopy18. of the (13C, 15N) repetitive domains of the spidroins used for the NMR measurements were ~1.5–2.2 mM (monomer: 11.7–17.0 g L−1, dimer: 15.8–23.0 g L−1, trimer: 19.6–28.8 g L−1, hexamer: 31.4–46.0 g L−1, 15-mer: 69.3–100 g L−1). in Fig. 2a, the 2D 1H–15N heteronuclear single quantum coherence (HSQC) of the 15-mer displayed poor chemical shift dispersion (<1 ppm) of the amide proton domain, which is a characteristic of an unfolded protein spectrum. The 2D 1H–15N HSQC spectra of the monomer, dimer, trimer, and hexamer also demonstrated poor chemical shift dispersion of the amide proton signals, suggesting that these proteins were also unfolded under conditions similar to those of the 15-mer (. 2B). of His-tag and cloning site (Thr-Ser) did not affect the conformation of the repetitive domain. (Cα, Hα, C, NH, and Cβ) and ~84% of the total side chain resonances of the repetitive domains at pH 7 and 10 °C could be assigned using 2D and 3D NMR measurements. backbone chemical shifts of the repetitive domain were translated into structural propensity values using the neighbor-corrected structural propensity calculator (ncSPC)28, all repetitive domains were predominantly unfolded as indicated by a low structural propensity value (<0.15). number of repetitive domains was increased, the polyalanine regions (AGAAAAAGGAG) displayed a small but observable increase in β-sheet propensity as indicated by the structural propensity values of the trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer (closer to −0.1). β-sheet propensities occurred in the polyalanine sequence. -rich regions in every construct of the repetitive domain (monomer, dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer) exhibited low-helical propensities (. 3). A small increase in helical propensity was also found for the first three residues of the monomer repeat unit. likely occurred because the initial repeat residues were located proximal to the His-tag containing the DDDDKAMAAS sequence, which showed a higher helical propensity (. 4). Furthermore, the high resolution of the 2D H(N)CO spectra demonstrated that in the dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer, the backbone carbonyl chemical shifts of 26GLGSQGTS29 and 1GR2 residues were shifted relative to those of the monomer (. 5). chemical shift differences between the 15-mer and monomer and between the 15-mer and dimer were plotted as a function of the residue number (. 6A and 6B). backbone chemical shift of the intrinsically disordered protein is only influenced by direct neighbor residues (i − 1 and i + 1), chemical shift differences of more distant residues (>2 residues from the interface of repetitive domain) between the 15-mer and monomer indicated that the 15-mer was not a fully random coil protein ( 6A)30. , the chemical shift difference between the 15-mer and dimer in the end terminal was similar to the chemical shift difference between the 15-mer and monomer, while the chemical shift difference between the 15-mer and dimer in the middle region was close to zero ( 6B). suggests that the dimer is not fully random coil, similar to 15-mer. shift changes also indicated a slight difference in structural propensity in that region (. 3). The CTD and NTD are known to display a strong pH dependence for their conformations in vitro10,11,12,36, and these results are similar to the findings for the pH gradient in the spider gland37. the pH effect on the structure of the repetitive domain at an acidic pH, several 2D NMR experiments, namely, 1H−15N HSQC, 1H–13C HSQC and 2D projection of H(N)CO, were performed to follow the backbone (Cα, Hα, NH, and C′) chemical shifts of the 15-mer from pH 2.6 to 7.0. that neither chemical shift changes nor line broadening occurred in that pH range (Fig. 4). implies that the repetitive domains of MaSp1 do not undergo any conformational changes in response to a decrease in pH. The pH effect on the repetitive domain at a basic pH was probed using 2D CON and 2D 1H–13C HSQC aliphatic experiments. pH titration under basic conditions, only marginal chemical shift changes and structural propensities (. 10A, 10B and . 11) were observed around at pH 10.2. can be explained by deprotonation of the chain. side chain pKa was determined using 13Cε as a chemical shift reporter (. 10C). Our pH titration data (pH 7.0–11.3) indicated that the pKa of the chain of the 15-mer was 10.25 ± 0.02 (. 10D), which is identical to the typical value determined for solvent-exposed Tyr38. Although, the chain pKa of the repetitive domain was determined in the absence of salts (NaCl, KCl), the presence of high concentrations of salt (~0.4 M) only affected amino acid pKa values ranging from ~0.2–0.9 pH units as previously reported39. interactions of the repetitive domain were also evaluated in this study by monitoring the backbone chemical shift (NH, HN, Cα, Hα) of the 15-mer at different concentrations. our NMR data, we found no change in the backbone chemical shifts of the repetitive domain at different concentrations (concentration range: 23.1 g L−1 (0.5 mM) up to 46.2 g L−1 (1 mM)) (. 12A, 12B and 12C). indicated that there was no change in the population of soluble repetitive domains, as indicated by the CD and VCD spectra (Fig. 1b, c). , the ratio between the signal-to-noise (S/N) values of the signals from the 2D 1H–15N HSQC spectrum of the 15-mer at 1 mM (4 scans) and 0.5 mM (16 scans) was approximately one and uniform for the entire sequence. suggested that observable changes did not occur in the interaction or dynamics of the repetitive domain at higher concentrations (. 12C). also suggested that no entanglement effect was observed for the repetitive domain under this condition. presence of mechanical and/or chemical stimuli (e.g., shear forces, kosmotropic ions, etc.), the entanglement effect of the repetitive domain might be affected at higher concentrations. of temperature on the conformation and dynamics of the soluble repetitive domain were investigated using NMR and CD. temperature increased from 10 to 25 °C, the signal intensities of the 1H–15N HSQC spectra decreased because of the rapid exchange of amide protons to water (. 13A). However, based on the overlay of the Cα-Hα region from the 1H–13C HSQC spectra, no chemical shift changes were observed from 10 to 25 °C (. 13B), suggesting that there were no significant changes in the conformation of the soluble repetitive domain. At a higher temperature (15 °C), the {1H}–15N heteronuclear NOE data for the repetitive domain consistently showed that the glycine-rich region had more limited flexibility than the polyalanine region (. 13C). The CD spectra of the 15-mer at different temperatures (. 13D) also demonstrated minima at 196 nm and weak maxima at ~215 nm, which persisted from 10 to 30 °C, suggesting the presence of the PPII helix population23. However, the decrease in the ellipticity of the 15-mer at ~215 nm at higher temperatures (. 13D) indicated that the PPII helix population of the repetitive domain decreased as the temperature increased40. study, we investigated the conformations and dynamics of the soluble repetitive domains of N. clavipes in the absence of the terminal domains. Although, the mechanical properties of spider dragline silk are diminished in the absence of the terminal domains16,41, previous studies reported that individual domains of spider silk function independently, and no stable interactions were observed between these domains42,43. Therefore, we consider that our study on conformations and dynamics of repetitive domains in the absence of terminal domains might be highly relevant to the conformations and dynamics of the repetitive domains when considered in the presence of terminal domains. propensity of the polyalanine region of the repetitive domain is similar to that of the random coil; although, the negative structural propensity score in this region suggests that a β-sheet precursor already occurred in the soluble form. A similar finding was reported for the soluble β-sheet precursor of the monomer and dimer of Aβ4044. Intriguingly, the soluble β-sheet precursor in the polyalanine region of spidroin is similar to the β-sheet region of spider silk fiber as demonstrated by solid-state NMR data, but the conformation in this region is different from the one found in the β-sheet region (GAGAGS) in the silkworm silk of , which forms a repeated β-turn type II structure prior to spinning46. suggest that PPII helix conformation in the glycine-rich region is retained before and after the spinning process of spider dragline silk. is also consistent with a previous study demonstrating that the PPII helix conformation also carried –GGX– and –GPG– motifs in flagelliform silk47. The PPII helix, which is also recognized as a 31 helix or polyglycine II48,49, is markedly more flexible than the α-helix and β-sheets50, although this conformation is still less dynamic than the random coil conformation. Therefore, the presence of the PPII helix in the glycine-rich region contributes to more limited flexibility of the 15-mer than of the monomer. of the PPII helix population in the glycine-rich region is reflected by more limited flexibility in this region than in the polyalanine region, even at a temperature of 15 °C. The PPII helix conformation is important because the geometry of this conformation allows the protein chain to progress directly to form a reverse turn51. Previously, solid-state NMR indicated that the conserved LG(G/S)QG motif in the glycine-rich region ( 1) adopts a turn conformation in MaSp1 fibers52. are supported by our results, which showed that the structural propensity (. 3) and backbone carbonyl chemical shifts in the GLGSQGTS region differ from those of the monomer and other repetitive domains (. 5 and 6). suggest that the chemical environment of this motif in multiple repetitive domains with at least 2 repeat units (dimer, trimer, hexamer, and 15-mer), which are able to undergo intramolecular interactions, differs from that in the monomer. also demonstrate that when the number of repetitive domains is increased, the helical propensity of the GLGSQGTS region also increases, suggesting that the PPII helix population is stabilized by the greater number of the repetitive domains (. 3). repeat lengths, such as the dimer and trimer, the PPII helix population is present but less stable. Therefore, the CD spectra of the dimer and trimer did not display detectable positive maxima at 215 nm, which is a clear indication of a PPII helix population. Furthermore, PPII helix stabilization with a larger number of repetitive domains enables spidroin to readily form intramolecular interactions and explains why stronger spider silk fibers can be achieved when the silk protein contains high numbers of repetitive domains15. of PPII helix conformation in native spider dragline silk had been reported using VCD spectroscopy18, which is consistent with our far-UV CD and VCD data. study using VCD spectroscopy provided the overall conformation, while the conformation and dynamics of the repetitive domain as a function of amino acid sequence remained unclear. study, using solution state NMR spectroscopy, we demonstrated the local conformations and dynamics of the repetitive domain as the function of amino acid sequence. clearly demonstrated that the PPII helix population was distributed over the glycine-rich region; whereas, the random coil population was distributed over the polyalanine region. is consistent with the dynamics data, namely, the glycine-rich region has more limited flexibility compared with the polyalanine region. PPII helix population of the 15-mer represents only 25% of the total secondary structure population in the glycine-rich region, the presence of PPII helix populations in the soluble repetitive domains plays an important role in the spinning efficiency because this conformation readily undergoes intramolecular interactions. propose that soluble spider silk occurs in equilibrium with two major populations ( in Fig. 5): random coils (~65%) and PPII helix (~24%). precursor of the repetitive domain containing the PPII helix serves as the prefibrillar form of the spider dragline silk. The PPII helix conformation is favorable for protein–protein interactions, such as protein complex assembly50. prefibrillar form of spider dragline silk might form irreversible β-sheet structures via PPII helix interactions in the glycine-rich region, which could potentially lead to the formation of silk fibers in response to a change in the biochemical environment, extensional flow, dehydration, and shear forces. The PPII helix interaction in the glycine-rich region is possibly mediated by hydrogen bonds between alpha proton and carbonyl oxygen, similar to the triple helix structure of collagen29. case of the glycine-rich region, PPII helix interactions are possibly mediated by hydrogen bonds between chain and carbonyl oxygen of the neighboring residue53. The PPII helix conformations in the glycine-rich regions between repeat domains enables the ultra-rapid conversion into aligned protein polymers during the silk spinning process, as well as pre-ordering of the soluble spidroins, which helps prevent premature aggregation, even at extremely high concentrations. of β-sheet formation of spider dragline silk. a ampullate gland displays a strong pH gradient . b structural populations of spider dragline silk proteins, random coil, and PPII helix in the glycine-rich region, occur in soluble form. of the PPII helix in the glycine-rich region is proposed as a soluble prefibrillar form of spider dragline silk. region is shown in red, and the glycine-rich region is shown in black. of PPII helix interaction in the glycine-rich region is shown in the box. to dehydration, shearing forces, extensional flow and changes in the biochemical environment, this prefibrillar form will generate spider dragline fibers through strong β-sheet interactions Interestingly, conformation and dynamics of the recombinant repetitive domain of N. clavipes in this study are different from those of the recombinant repetitive domain of in the presence of terminal domains42. are possibly due to the length of the polyalanine region. polyalanine region (14–15 alanine residues) of the repetitive domain of E. australis shows helical structure, while the glycine-rich region has random coil conformation. in the current study, a shorter polyalanine region (5 alanine residues) in N. clavipes repetitive domain leads to random coil conformation. are in agreement with previous study, which revealed that the conformation of polyalanine region (6–8 alanine residues) of native dragline silk was random coil54. , the longer polyalanine region in E. australis repetitive domain leads to the formation of helical structure55. structure of the polyalanine in E. australis is also similar to the helical structure of a long polyalanine region (10–14 alanine residues) in ricini56. case of E. australis spidroins, hydrophobicity of the repetitive domain and hydrophilicity of the C-terminal domain cause to form micelle-like structure42. Together, these studies suggest that the soluble form of shorter polyalanine region (4–8 alanine residues) of the repetitive domain tends to form random coil, while longer polyalanine regions (>10 alanine residues) tend to form helical structure. Furthermore, the recombinant repetitive domain of E. australis is easily aggregated even at low concentration (1 g L−1)55; whereas, the recombinant N. clavipes repetitive domain is soluble at relatively high concentration (100 g L−1). in solubility of the repetitive domains can be explained based on the dynamic behavior of the glycine-rich region. flexibility of the glycine-rich region of the repetitive domain from N. clavipes seems to be essential for maintaining high solubility of spider silk protein by preventing premature aggregation. other hand, the high flexibility of the glycine-rich region of E. australis repetitive domain leads this domain to be easily aggregated55. of the acidic pH effect revealed no conformational changes in the repetitive domains, suggesting that pH changes in the spinning gland do not influence the prefibrillar region of the repetitive domain. change in a protein as a function of pH is normally accompanied by protonation and deprotonation of acid and basic groups. acidic residue is available in the repetitive domain, no conformational changes were observed at acidic pH. However, in vitro studies of native and recombinant spider dragline silk composed of NTD, repetitive domains and CTD demonstrated β-sheet formation at an acidic pH54,57,58. Thus, based on the results of the present and previous studies, we concluded that CTD and NTD might be necessary for inducing β-sheet formation in spider silk during the early stage of the spinning process. Furthermore, dehydration, shear forces, and changes in biochemical environment are also involved in the β-sheet formation of spider silk proteins. Previously, volumetric, and spectrophotometric titration studies of native spidroin () demonstrated two apparent pK values: 6.74 and 9.2159. pK value was hypothesized to originate from the deprotonation of different residues; whereas, the latter pK value was thought to be related to the deprotonation of chain residues59. , deprotonation of the chain has been thought to be involved in the solubility of spider dragline silk at pH values >8.560. study, since the pKa value of the chain of the repetitive domain is ~10.3, this indicates that deprotonation of the chain was not essential for increasing the solubility of spider dragline silk because the pKa value of the chain at pH 10.3 is too basic for the ampullate gland. , the soluble repetitive domains of spider dragline silk at neutral pH have two major populations: PPII helix (~24%) and random coils (~65%). The PPII helix conformation is more prevalent in the glycine-rich regions, which present less flexibility than the polyalanine region, which contains more random coils. -rich region with the PPII helix population is proposed as the soluble prefibrillar form, which readily supports the transformation into insoluble silk fiber. also demonstrated that the molecular structure of the repetitive domain is not affected by pH, indicating that the prefibrillar form of the repetitive domain is not influenced by pH. provides a better understanding of the initial mechanism of spider silk protein self-assembly and the high solubility of spidroin in the major ampullate gland. to produce strong artificial spider silk should consider a combination of a large number of repetitive and non-repetitive domains (CTD and NTD) of spidroin as well as a combination of soft (glycine-rich region) and hard (polyalanine region) segments in the repetitive domains to form strong and desirable intramolecular and intermolecular interactions. in the spider duct induces conformational changes in dragline spider silk proteins (spidroins) and drives their assembly, but the underlying physical mechanisms are still elusive. address this challenging multiscale problem with a complementary strategy of atomistic and coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations with uniform flow. changes at the molecular level were analyzed for single-tethered spider silk peptides. leads to coiled-to-stretch transitions and pushes alanine residues into β sheet and poly-proline II conformations. Coarse-grained simulations of the assembly process of multiple semi-flexible block copolymers using multi-particle collision dynamics reveal that the spidroins aggregate faster but into low-order assemblies when they are less extended. -to-large peptide extensions (50%–80%), assembly slows down and becomes reversible with frequent association and dissociation events, whereas spidroin alignment increases and alanine repeats form ordered regions. highlights the role of flow in guiding silk self-assembly into tough fibers by enhancing alignment and kinetic reversibility, a mechanism likely relevant also for other proteins whose function depends on hydrodynamic flow. has an extraordinary toughness because it is made from fibers with highly ordered crystalline regions embedded into a soft and disordered matrix. used computer simulations with molecular details at two different scales, at the atomistic scale and at a coarser scale, to analyze how silk proteins assemble under flow. A key result is that flow elongates the proteins, which enhances the reversibility of the assembly process, allowing oligomers to grow more slowly and form more crystalline regions compared to no-flow conditions or very low flow rates. can aid the optimization of silk spinning processes and are likely relevant also for other proteins whose biological function relies on hydrodynamic flow. a major role in the stabilization, structure, and dynamics of proteins (1,2), mainly via hydrogen bond networking (3) and screening of electrostatic interactions (4). proteins function in the context of a quiescent fluid, there are important situations in which hydrodynamic flow affects protein structure by inducing nonuniform drag force along the protein. can mediate a large variety of processes such as material synthesis, blood coagulation, and protein misfolding (5,6,7). , the flow-induced activation of von (vWf) protein is crucial in hemostasis (8,9,10). elongational flows can lead to protein unfolding, misfolding, and aggregation, and can accelerate fibrillation of amyloid-β peptide (11,12,13,14). A complete molecular understanding of how proteins respond to flow, however, remains elusive. Here, we study an important example from material synthesis, namely assembly of dragline spider silk proteins (spidroins) into a fiber, which occurs in the major ampullate (MA) spinning gland and outperforms mechanically any biomaterial made by nature (7,15,16,17,18,19,20,21). MA spidroins consist of pH-dependent folded N-terminal and C-terminal domains, which experience conformational changes from pH 7.0 down to pH 5.0 in the spider spinning gland, thereby initiating assembly (19). these terminal domains, spidroins feature a long repetitive region, which makes up roughly 90% of their total sequence (Fig. 1 a) (22). region of silk proteins comprises alternating blocks of hydrophobic alanines, which form β sheet stacks in the silk fiber, and hydrophilic glycine-rich repeats, which form the amorphous and extensible matrix of silk (15,21,23). A large body of work explored the dependence of silk fiber assembly under elongational and shear flows using microfluidics (6,17,18,19,24,25). -molecule force spectroscopy experiments, single spidroin molecules largely followed a worm-like chain behavior but also exhibited unique unfolding steps (23,26,27,28). However, flow-dependent dynamics of single silk proteins and flow-induced spidroin self-assembly remain largely unknown. and computational model for spidroins under uniform flow. (a) corresponds to the structural part of the spider’s web frame (top left), fiber microstructure of which consists of embedded β sheet crystals into an amorphous viscoelastic matrix. is formed upon directed self-assembly induced by flow of the spidroins; a scheme of the MA dragline spidroin sequence is shown. structure comprises three regions: pH-dependent N- and C-terminal domains (NT and CT, red), as well as a long repetitive region with alternating poly-alanine (poly-Ala, blue) repeats and glycine-rich motifs (GGX or GXG, with X being another amino acid, gray). (b) The MD model of silk under flow considers all-atom (AA) and coarse-grained (CG) models of a fragment of the repetitive region, containing three poly- two amorphous regions, resulting in ∼80 amino acids in total. atoms (for AA) or backbone and sidechain beads for each amino acid (CG). fragment is tethered at the N terminus (red sphere), and a uniform flow is produced to stretch the peptide. self-assembly under uniform flow, sets of 25 peptides (bottom right) are tethered along the flow direction and able to move transversely. as in the spidroin scheme in (a). this figure in color, go online. study, we attack these open questions in a two-pronged approach of simultaneously performing all-atom (AA) and CG simulations at physiologically relevant flow velocities. As a representative example, we chose an ∼80 amino acid-long sequence from the repetitive part of MA dragline spidroin, which consists of three poly-alanine repeats and two amorphous regions (Fig. 1 a). these proteins at the mesoscopic scale as a simple block copolymer using a Go-like potential (49) combined with MPCD (38) to model a uniform flow. , we performed atomistic MD simulations of the same spidroin fragments in uniform flow of explicit water (50). the proteins to largely follow the expected freely jointed chain behavior as known from single-molecule stretching experiments and simulations, although with interesting differences. long-range poly-alanine interactions and promotes β sheet and poly-proline II (PPII) conformations, both known to be present in silk fibers, in particular within the poly-alanine repeats. -assembly, we found an enhancement of oligomerization at low flow rates. are more prone to form inter-chain contacts than the residues in the amorphous region and this favors the formation of β sheet crystals during fibrillation. give molecular insight into the drag force and stretching dynamics of disordered and unfolded proteins in flow as well as into flow-induced assembly of spider silk and related protein-based materials. simulations, we model a representative fragment of silk spidroin, consisting of three poly-alanine repeats separated by two glycine-rich regions, with a total length of ∼80 amino acids. Fig. 1 b shows AA and CG representations of the repetitive fragment we simulated. comprise both single silk peptides, at both AA and CG level, and multiple silk peptides, only at CG level, under uniform flow. the same system described in the previous section at CG level, i.e., at the resolution of two beads per amino acid (backbone bead and sidechain bead) rather than atoms. beads are located on the 𝐶𝛼 and 𝐶𝛽 atoms of each amino acid. is simplified as a block copolymer composed of two types of amino acids: alanine and a nonspecific amino acid type for the disordered region. of in every region is the same as in AA simulations. primary intermolecular interaction within silk fibers are β sheets formed from the poly-, we considered attractive (native) interactions only between in our model, more specifically between pairs of alanine backbone beads (representing the backbone hydrogen bonding within β sheets) and between pairs of alanine sidechain beads (representing hydrophobic packing between methyl groups across β sheets) (59). These “native” interactions were modeled as attractive LJ interactions and all other bead-bead interactions as purely repulsive terms. describe all interactions of our spidroin mesoscopic self-organized polymer (SOP) model including sidechains (SOP-SC) in detail. secondary structure analysis, we defined residues to be in a β sheet conformation when the dihedrals fall into the intervals of 90≤𝜓≤180 and −180≤φ≤−90 (circles), and in a PPII conformation if 128≤𝜓≤180 and −90≤φ≤−58 (squares). the relevance of alanines in the formation of β sheets, we show the percentage of non- as %𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎𝛽/𝑃⁢𝑃⁢𝐼⁢𝐼=𝑁𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎𝛽/𝑃⁢𝑃⁢𝐼⁢𝐼∗100/𝑁𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎 (blue symbols) and %𝑛⁢𝑜⁢𝑛⁢𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎𝛽/𝑃⁢𝑃⁢𝐼⁢𝐼=𝑁𝑛⁢𝑜⁢𝑛⁢𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎𝛽/𝑃⁢𝑃⁢𝐼⁢𝐼∗100/𝑁𝑛⁢𝑜⁢𝑛⁢𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎 (gray symbols). 𝑁𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎𝛽/𝑃⁢𝑃⁢𝐼⁢𝐼 and 𝑁𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎 correspond to the number of in β sheet or PPII helix and the total number of alanines in the peptide sequence, whereas 𝑁𝑛⁢𝑜⁢𝑛⁢𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎𝛽/𝑃⁢𝑃⁢𝐼⁢𝐼 and 𝑁𝑛⁢𝑜⁢𝑛⁢𝐴⁢𝑙⁢𝑎 are the number of residues of the amorphous region in β sheet or PPII and the total number of residues different from alanines. are expected to play an important role during shear-induced unfolding of silk peptides and their assembly into a fiber. the relevance of in the silk protein conformational ensembles in flow, we quantified the number of along flow velocities in AA (Fig. 3 a) and CG simulations (Fig. 3 b). AA case, we observe a drop of Ala- between 0.16 and 0.24 m/s of flow rate. Also, the fractional extension of the AA peptide as a function of the flow rate confirms this behavior (Fig. S3 A): initially the peptide is extended up to about 30% of the contour length from 0.08 m/s up to 0.16 m/s. threshold, the peptide is stretched 20% further in the mean flow velocity interval of (0.24–0.29) m/s up to around 80% of its contour length at 0.48 m/s. abrupt transition of the peptide from coiled to stretched conformation in the AA is associated with a decrease of the hydrophobic effect. be observed in Fig. 3 c, which shows the solvent-accessible surface area over flow rate. , the hydrophobic residues are not buried and the silk peptide suddenly transits from a coiled to an extended state. occurs about at 0.2 m/s of flow rate (see the orange vertical line in Fig. 3 c). of β sheets is a key factor in the self-assembly of spider silk and requires flow (17). However, how flow induces β sheet formation is poorly understood. studies, a significant population, namely ∼24%, of PPII helix in the repetitive region of MA spidroin dopes, i.e., before flow-induced elongation during spinning, has been observed (67). been suggested that PPII helices in N. clavipes can form a rigid structure that can be quickly transformed into β sheets and having higher flexibility in the glycine-rich region of E. australis makes this domain prone to aggregation. asked to what extent our spidroin fragment samples β sheet and PPII conformations and how these backbone propensities are influenced by flow. for each amino acid the respective backbone configurations based on its two backbone dihedral angles (see section “methods” for details). over all alanines and all amorphous-phase residues (nonalanines) and normalized by the total number of alanines and nonalanines, respectively. the secondary structure propensities only for the AA simulations, as the CG lacks the required resolution. Fig. 3d shows the percentage of amino acids with dihedral angles either in β sheet or PPII conformation as a function of mean flow velocity. of alanines in both β sheet and PPII conformations is increasing with the mean flow velocity for both the poly- amorphous regions. Both β sheet and PPII conformations populate the upper left corner of the and are close to the most extended backbone configuration with 𝜓=180 and φ=−180. reason, flow is expected to drive the amino acids into this region of the dihedral space, as previously also observed for disordered proteins under a stretching force (68). of the backbone torsion angles in β sheet and PPII in the poly- remains around 10% higher than in the amorphous regions, largely independent of the flow velocity. ratios are in line with the view that the poly-alanine repeats preferentially drive β sheet formation, i.e., crystallization, during fiber formation. Furthermore, the poly- show rather extended backbone conformations at a higher flow (>70% PPII and β sheet), whereas the amorphous fragments only exhibit a minor fraction of residues in these conformations (<50% PPII and β sheet). measured explicitly the rate of change by fitting the data to a straight line. a rate 𝑟⁢𝑎⁢𝑡⁢𝑒𝐴⁢𝐿⁢𝐴=36 [% s/m] for the poly- and 𝑟⁢𝑎⁢𝑡⁢𝑒𝑛⁢𝑜⁢𝑛⁢𝐴⁢𝐿⁢𝐴=28 [% s/m] for the amorphous one. the alanine and amorphous phase, β sheet conformations are slightly preferred over the PPII conformation, and they together represent the majority of secondary structure conformations. , in the poly-alanine regions, at the absence of flow, β sheet and PPII dihedral conformations are on average sampled by more than 50% of the residues and reach ∼70 % at the largest flow rates we have used. more detail at the PPII content, in the absence of flow, there are on average 10 ALA residues and six amorphous residues in the PPII conformation. that, before the initiation of flow, the PPII content is approximately 22% (see Fig. 3 d), a value comparable with the experimental estimate (67). suggests that the used force field predicts to some extent the proper amount of poly-proline content. other force fields, for instance, the recent ones that reproduce well both disordered and folded regions (69,70), is certainly very important. However, it falls outside the scope of the present study. account that the transition from PPII helix to β sheet is very likely to happen due to their close proximity in terms of dihedrals, we can conclude that poly-alanine regions in our spidroin are primed for β sheet formation by uniform flow. proportion of alanines of ∼70% in β sheet or close to β sheet (that is, PPII) conformations is already very close to the 90% β sheet content by alanines predicted in the model of al. (71), which is based in nuclear magnetic resonance experimental studies. of torsional angles in PPII helix conformation might result in a prefibrillar form of the repetitive region of the spidroins before forming stronger β sheet interactions, as proposed by al. (67). the simulations of single chains, the silk fragment comprises ∼80 residues; that is, three poly- and two intrinsically disordered regions. pre-alignment of the peptides was performed, mimicking the multimerization at the N-terminal domains (Fig. 1). -alignment is maintained by tethering the peptides along the flow direction at the same position, whereas they can move transversely. pre-alignment will enhance the packing of the chains (via the formation of contacts mostly within the poly-). way, we monitored assembly in an idealized setting with all chains in phase and subjected to uniform flow. peptide fractional extension as a function of the mean flow velocity, averaged over the replicates simulated at the same flow, is shown in Fig. S3. mean fractional extensions in the range of [0.0−0.76]⁢𝐿. , the lower four out of the total eight velocities applied all resulted in fractional extensions close to zero. in sharp contrast to the single-chain simulations, in which the same range of flow velocities has led to measurable expansions of the chain (compare Fig. 2 c). Here, with a relatively high density of spidroins, the lower range of flows was not sufficient to compete with the high tendency of the chains to interact and could not expand the chains before inter-chain aggregation, which further reduced their extensions drastically. quantify the effect of flow velocities on the spidroin assembly, we computed the average oligomer size as a function of time over all replicates (Fig. 4 b). sizes for individual replicates, exemplarily for two different flows, are also shown in Fig. S7). Overall, self-assembly of silk peptides slows down with increasing flow velocity (simulation snapshots for two different flows are shown in Fig. S7). causes a higher mean oligomerization at a given time (light blue, purple, green, and magenta curves in Fig. 4 b) compared to faster flow regimes (red, orange, dark blue, and black curves in Fig. 4 b). this slowdown in oligomerization to a reduction of the fluctuations of the protein chains orthogonal to the flow direction at high flow rates (flow rates larger than 1 m/s or polymer extensions larger than 0.4⁢𝐿), which reduces the lateral diffusion of the peptides and in fact the likelihood of lateral diffusional encounters. However, the inter-chain contact formation and controlled assembly into β sheet is enhanced due to the flattening and alignment of the chains along the flow (see Fig. S8). can be observed by comparing Fig. 4 b and c: the mean oligomerization size is lower at higher rates but the non-ALA inter-chain contact formation increases with the flow, and the number of ALA contacts is not drastically reduced despite a lower oligomerization because of a more favorable interaction between the inter-chain residues. A similar behavior has been observed for one-end tethered polymers on surfaces under uniform flow, where the adsorption of the polymers on the surface was enhanced due to the flattening of the polymer chain along the flow (72). Indeed, the inter-protein contacts between the spidroins are strongly affected by flow. , oligomerization involves the formation of inter-chain contacts. , the type of contacts changes with flow. Namely, higher flow velocities and extensions result in more nonalanine contacts due to the fact that chains are aligned in the oligomers (Fig. 4 c). to understand the influence of uniform flow on the dynamics of silk self-assembly. end, we focused on one-end tethered single and multiple dragline spidroins and performed MD simulations under uniform flow on two scales: atomistic (AA) and amino acid (CG) resolution. way, we could consider atomistic details from AA simulations of single chains and, on the other hand, covered larger time and length scales using CG simulations for the assembly. combination, AA simulations served to analyze in detail the structural changes of spidroins with flow (Fig. 3 c and b), whereas the CG simulations helped us to simulate larger systems with an adequate description of the hydrodynamic interactions at play. observation of the AA simulations is the increase of alanines in β sheet conformations with the flow, increasing their propensity for fibrillation and the formation of β sheet crystals as found in silk fibers (59). assembly by the formation of crystals, several studies have pointed out the high tendency of 𝛽 sheet structures between the poly- of the spidroins (71,74,75). CG simulations can extend the limited timescales of the AA systems but at the expense of an accurate structural model. chose a CG model that still captures the sidechain packing of alanines across β sheets in crystals by using two beads per amino acid. Our CG model was able to identify two key tendencies of flow-induced silk fiber assembly. the chains and overall slows down the oligomerization. kinetics shows that this is a consequence primarily of enhancing and accelerating also dissociation. As a result, flow introduces reversibility and removes kinetic traps. is similar to assembly of protein complexes under quiescent conditions, such as virus capsids, which are stalled in kinetic traps if the free energy gain is too high (76,77,78). case of silk discussed here, moderate amounts of shear, but not too-high values, increase the quality of the assembly, allowing proper β sheet configurations to form not only because of the mere extension and alignment of the poly-alanine repeats but also by speeding up their reversible association and dissociation as a mechanism of quality control. that our observations on silk assembly at the CG level, by comparison to the AA simulations, correspond to flows in the range of 0.5–3 m/s (Fig. 2 c). are relevant, albeit at the upper boundary, to those used in a laboratory setting or observed within the spider gland (79) Nature's high-performance polymer, spider silk, is composed of specific proteins, spidroins, which form solid fibers. , fibers made from recombinant spidroins have failed in replicating the extraordinary mechanical properties of the native material. A recombinant miniature spidroin consisting of four poly-Ala/Gly-rich tandem repeats and a nonrepetitive C-terminal domain (4RepCT) can be isolated in physiological buffers and undergoes self assembly into macrofibers. Herein, we have made a first attempt to improve the mechanical properties of 4RepCT fibers by selective introduction of AA → CC mutations and by letting the fibers form under physiologically relevant redox conditions. AA → CC mutations in the first poly- in the miniature spidroin increases the stiffness and tensile strength without changes in ability to form fibers, or in fiber morphology. mechanical properties correlate with degree of disulfide formation. AA → CC mutations in the forth poly-, however, lead to premature aggregation of the protein, possibly due to disulfide bonding with a conserved the C-terminal domain. this a Ser, lowers thermal stability but does not interfere with dimerization, fiber morphology or tensile strength. show that mutagenesis of 4RepCT can reveal spidroin structure-activity relationships and generate recombinant fibers with improved mechanical properties. is nature's high-performance biopolymer with extraordinary mechanical properties. and unsurpassed toughness is due to a unique combination of high tensile strength and elasticity.1 make up to seven different silks using specialized glands. , which is used as a safety line or for radial orb web fibers, is one of the toughest of all fibers analyzed.2 contains two proteins with similar amino acid sequences, referred to as major ampullate spidroin (MaSp) 1 and MaSp2.3 MaSps are mainly composed of highly repetitive amino acid sequences, with recurrent poly- interrupted by Gly-rich regions. contain nonrepetitive N- and C-terminal domains of about 100–150 amino acids but with different sequences.4 The C-terminal domain can form disulfide-mediated dimers and is important for fiber formation.5–9 , fibers from recombinant spidroins, as well as fibers made from regenerated silk have failed in replicating the extraordinary mechanical properties of the spider's dragline. been suggested that the spider's intricate spinning procedure and the large sizes of the native spidroins are of key importance for obtaining a very strong biopolymer, but crucial factors contributing to the silk characteristics still remain elusive.10–12 mechanical properties of spider dragline silk combined with its biocompatibility13–15 make this material an interesting target for use as a biomaterial, with potential applications in tissue engineering.16 , the use of spidroin fibers as scaffolds for generation of bone, ligaments, and nervous tissue replacements has been envisioned.14,17–20 However, such attempts have been hampered by the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of native spider silk, or fibers from recombinant spidroins. MaSp polypeptides are large, containing 3–4000 residues,21 and no attempts to produce full length spidroins recombinantly have been published so far. to produce recombinant spidroin fragments or simplified sequences inspired by the MaSp poly-Ala/Gly-rich pattern have been established but subsequent formation of fibers has proved more challenging. these systems yield high amounts of protein, but the repetitive and hydrophobic character of the spidroins makes them prone to aggregate in aqueous solutions, why the use of denaturing agents or salts for resolubilization often is required. recently introduced a new way to produce an MaSp1 fragment that allows isolation using aqueous buffers and spontaneous formation of macroscopic-sized fibers.8,9 possible by the use of a comparatively short MaSp1 fragment, containing only four poly-Ala/Gly-rich regions and the nonrepetitive C-terminal domain, 4RepCT, and a cleavable fusion partner that prevents aggregation during protein production and isolation. of this system for site-directed mutagenesis raises interesting possibilities such as rational design of customized fibers, and also gives the opportunity to test the importance of specific spidroin sequence features for fiber formation. Herein, we investigate whether the mechanical properties of the recombinant MaSp1 fibers can be improved by introduction of intermolecular disulfide bridges between poly-, which lack the native fibers. Moreover, the importance of the native disulfide-mediated dimerization of the nonrepetitive C-terminal domain for fiber formation is investigated. mechanical properties of spider silk have since long attracted the attention of researchers aiming to design durable materials for a number of purposes.16 MaSp genes sequenced so far are large,21 which indicates that a large number of repeat units improve mechanical properties. genes is also a feature independently selected for in insects16,21 which further implies that large silk proteins are beneficial for producing strong silks. with the supposition that spidroin length correlates with strength of fibers, many attempts to produce recombinant silks have aimed at maximizing length of spidroins used. , however, is likely to give also decreased yields and lowered solubility, which has resulted in frequent use of denaturing agents and organic solvents for solubilization to allow artificial spinning from a concentrated spidroin dope.22 to convert the spidroin dope into solid fibers have been tried, including variants of wet spinning11,24–29 and electro spinning.28,30 spinning strategies require post-treatment in dehydrating solvent and further postspinning procedures that increase β-sheet content and structural orientation in the fibers, before demanding handling procedures such as mechanical testing are practically possible. , recombinantly produced spidroin analogues that have been denatured and artificially spun have given rise to fibers that are much weaker than the native spider silk, both in terms of stress and initial modulus, no matter of the length of the protein.11,24–29 artificial spinning of regenerated natural spider silk, likely containing full-length spidroins in a denatured form, has delivered fibers that match native spider silk.10,12 properties of silk reeled from spiders vary with factors such as speed and environmental conditions during spinning.31 that both the protein size and the spinning conditions affect the properties of the resultant fibers. Moreover, the structure of the soluble spidroin might be important for an optimal conversion into a solid fiber.8,9 importance of protein sequence, length, and structure compared to the spinning conditions remain to be delineated. applications of the synthetic spider silk are the main objective, it needs to be biocompatible, which further complicates the endeavor of finding suitable production methods that do not include noxious solvents. Thus, production of long spidroins that do not aggregate before fiber formation have been attempted. of in a recombinant consensus repeat of dragline silk from N. clavipes allowed control of assembly via oxidation and reduction; oxidation prevented assembly, whereas reduction allowed assembly as for the nonmodified protein.32,33 In a similar manner, a genetically introduced kinase recognition motif allowed control of assembly via enzymatic phosphorylation/dephosphorylation.34 However, no fibers were formed from these constructs. attempt to survey spontaneous fiber formation we recently investigated a miniature spidroin, 4RepCT, produced recombinantly in soluble form under nondenaturing conditions, and then induced to assemble into macroscopic fibers.8 strength of 4RepCT fibers8 compares favorably to artificial silk made from larger but denatured spidroins,27–29 but it is below that of native dragline silks. the mechanical properties of fibers made of the comparatively small 4RepCT, we envisioned that covalent multimerization could be employed. is shown that the initial modulus of 4RepCT fibers can be improved by introduction of covalent linkages between poly-. study is the first where the mechanical properties of recombinant spider silk has been increased by genetic engineering. of 4RepCT are self assembled in an aqueous environment without the usage of any spinning apparatus and rely thus on the organizational ability of the protein. CD spectra and X-ray diffraction8 of the 4RepCT fibers show a substantial fraction of β-sheet structure although the orientation is lower than in the native fibers (L. Serpell, personal communication). properties can be improved by postdrawing of the wet fibers,8 which probably increases the molecular orientation. through postdrawing and the presence of water have a great impact on the strength of artificial silks.10,35 multiple handlings steps when comparing 4RepCT with genetic variants thereof, the mechanical analysis is herein done directly on self assembled and dried fibers. This, in combination with biochemical analysis of disulfide formation, is used to correlate mechanical properties with cross-linking of the protein chains. mechanical properties of spider silk are affected by conditions, including climate at testing2,36 only fibers tested at the same occasion are compared. silk has been identified as a semicrystalline material made of amorphous, flexible chains reinforced by strong and stiff crystals.37 fibers, the Gly-rich regions of the spidroins likely form amorphous regions that are important for elasticity while the poly- are thought to form intermolecular β-sheets that mediate the tensile strength.37 A calculated stress strain curve based on this model gives a value of the initial modulus of 10 GPa,37 which is in good agreement with experimental observations of native spider silk.36 this model hydrogen bonds start to break at a tensile strength of 100 MPa and ∼2% elongation leading to the formation of a yielding point.37,38 of a stress strain curve have later been experimentally shown to be typical for silk.39–42 of self assembled, dried 4RepCT fibers (see Fig. 4) shows a linear stress-strain relationship and no clear yielding point, in good agreement with predictions for a crystalline and brittle material. modulus is comparable to that of native spider silk but the point where 4RepCT breaks corresponds roughly to the yield point of its native counterpart.23,40–47 of strain-hardening might be due to the comparatively short polypeptide chain of 4RepCT, which probably limits entanglements.48,49 -strain curve of CC1 resembles that of 4RepCT, with the main difference being a higher initial modulus and a higher breaking stress (Fig. 4, Table II). The CC1 mutations do not alter the ratio between the primary structure elements thought to contribute to crystallinity (poly-) and elasticity (Gly-rich blocks) but allow intermolecular disulfides to form between poly-, see further below. results in increased initial modulus without change in extensibility. that the stiffness of the fibers is mainly due to the interconnecting forces between β-strands. In CC1 and CC2, the two central the first and fourth poly-, respectively, were substituted for Cys (see Fig. 1). that CC2 could not be recovered in soluble form implies that the positioning of the of importance, and that future attempts to modulate fiber mechanical strength by introduction of to cover a large set of mutants. different consequences of introduction of the fourth (i.e., most C-terminal) compared to in the first (i.e., most N-terminal) poly- might be due to disulfide formation with the naturally occurring the C-terminal domain, which is highly conserved among major ampullate spidroins.50 Alternatively, the the fourth poly- gives increased availability for intermolecular disulfide bridges that collapses the soluble structure. that fibers could be formed from both mutant spidroins that could be produced in soluble form, CC1 and S, suggests that the fiber formation is quite robust. it likely that further genetically engineered variants can be successfully expressed and used to form fibers. been suggested that the C-terminal domain directs fiber formation9 and contributes to the mechanical properties of the fibers by mediating covalent linkage.51 S mutant the the C-terminal domain was changed to Ser (see Fig. 1). from S had occasionally a more fimbriated appearance compared to 4RepCT and CC1 fibers. However, the maximum stress tolerated and the initial modulus of S fibers are not significantly different from those of 4RepCT fibers, while they tolerate less strain before breakage (Fig. 4, Tables II and III). , together with the data for CC1 fibers, suggest that the stiffness of 4RepCT based fibers is largely independent on covalent interactions between nonrepetitive C-terminal domains, but relies mainly on intermolecular interactions between poly-. multimerize CC1, the poly- must form intermolecular disulfide bridges. requires a precise molecular alignment and oxidizing conditions. formation involves a structural change it is important that formation of disulfides that hinders this conversion is avoided. GSH/GSSG is often used to allow disulfide shuffling during refolding and renaturation procedures when proteins are purified from inclusion bodies dissolved in urea or other denaturing agents.52,53 the soluble CC1 in the presence of different GSH/GSSG ratios shows that the redox conditions used allow reduction of disulfides giving rise to monomeric CC1 [Fig. 5(A)]. order oligomers than dimers can be seen in the soluble fraction. , analysis of the oligomerisation status of dissolved CC1 fibers shows tetramers, and even higher oligomers, from fibers formed under redox conditions. , it appears that fibers made from CC1 in the presence of GSH/GSSG results in stronger fibers compared to when they are allowed to form without redox agents (Fig. 4, Tables II and III). attempt to favor high-oligomeric CC1 fibers, different redox conditions were used (Table I) to find optimal conditions. However, differences, if existent, were too small to be verified by tensile testing and SDS-PAGE analysis. However, it is clear that CC1 allows oligomerisation (see Fig. 5) and gives mechanically stronger fibers, since all CC1 fibers, irrespective of treatment, were significantly improved compared to the 4RepCT fibers (Fig. 4, Tables II and III). -assembled fibers analyzed herein are much thicker (= 40–90 μm) than natural dragline silk, that is usually only a few microns thick.23,35,54 However, fibers of 4RepCT and mutants thereof are composed of smaller subfiber filaments down to a diameter of ∼200 nm.8 strength of a bundle is generally less than that of the individual components. Therefore, possible differences in mechanical strength between CC1 filaments formed under different redox conditions may be masked in the current experimental setup. could be analyzed using smaller scale indentation measurements, for example by atomic force microscopy. disulfide formation before and during fiber formation, oxidizing treatments can be applied to formed fibers. DMSO is able to oxidize free thiols to disulfides. However, post-treatments of CC1 fibers with DMSO did not improve the mechanical properties of the CC1 fibers compared to the other methods employed. Possibly, post-treatment of fibers is comparatively inefficient, if the polypeptide chains are locked in conformations where not form disulfides, but other reasons for the differences can not be excluded. fibers that were bubbled in oxygen did not show improved mechanical properties, further suggesting that post-treatments are less efficient. ; one of natures way to covalently link polypeptide chain(s) and thereby confer stability, is used frequently in widely different proteins, for example, immunoglobulins,55 antimicrobial peptides56 and keratin.57 are covalently stabilized by disulfide bonds, although not all through a the C-terminal domain, as in MaSps. Egg-case protein-1 and 2 in the silk from the tubuliform gland of the cob-web weaver contain a large number of the N-terminal region, believed to mediate higher-aggregate complexes.58 noted that after prolonged treatment of solubilized egg case material with reducing agents there is an increase in monomers.59 and the light chain of the fibroin comprising the monofilament of the silkworm, , are interconnected through a disulfide bridge with implications for structure and mechanical properties of the silk. cross-linking of proteins is also speculated to be a crucial factor in the structure and polymerization of silk produced by the larvae of , which is spun into insoluble threads used to construct underwater feeding and pupation tubes.60 connectors have been speculated to be of importance for the strength of spider silk. rely on cross-linking of molecules in resilient structural materials through Tyr-, possibly enhancing the mechanical properties of the polymers.61–63 indication of peroxidase activity in the major ampullate gland of the spider,2 it was suggested that spidroins can be interconnected through covalent Tyr-, but experimental evidence could not be documented.2 However, Tyr- might be an alternative way of improving mechanical properties of recombinant spider silk through genetic engineering and optimized conditions during fiber formation. , a 4RepCT miniature spidroin was used to address questions related to the structural basis for fiber formation and strength. found that artificial silks made from recombinant spidroins can be tailored to improve their mechanical properties without using potentially noxious cross-linking agents, and that the conserved the C-terminal domain is not necessary for dimer formation or fiber self-assembly. explores the structures of exogenous protein molecules that can effectively improve the mechanical properties of silkworm silk. vectors fused with the silkworm fibroin light chain and type 3 repeats in different multiples of the ampullate dragline silk protein 1 (MaSp1) from black widow spider with different lengths of the polyalanine motifs were constructed for this study. were successfully obtained by piggyBac-mediated microinjection. showed that foreign proteins were successfully secreted and contained within the cocoon shells. the prediction of PONDR® VSL2 and PONDR® VL-XT, the type 3 repeats and the polyalanine motif of the MaSp1 protein were amorphous. of FTIR analysis showed that the content of β-sheets in the silk of transgenic silkworms engineered with transgenic vectors with additional polyalanine was significantly higher than that of wild-type silkworm silk. Additionally, silk with a higher β-sheet content had better fracture strength and Young’s modulus. properties of silk with longer chains of exogenous proteins were improved. , our results provide theoretical guidance and technical support for the large-scale production of excellent bionic silk. Silkworm () silk has been used in the textile industry for thousands of years, and it is the only natural silk fiber that can be produced on a large scale [1]. silk is composed of fibroin and sericin. a hydrophobic protein that consists of a fibroin light (FL) chain (26 kDa), a fibroin heavy (FH) chain (350 kDa), and a glycoprotein called the P25 protein (30 kDa) [2,3,4]. generally believed that the mechanical properties of silk are mainly dependent on the FH chain in silk [5]. Experimentally, when the FH chain is destroyed, the mechanical performance of silk decreases sharply, supporting this hypothesis [6]. analysis shows that the FH chain has a large molecular weight and a large number of (GA)NGX repeat motifs, which can form a large crystal/semicrystal domain in the silk fiber and could be the molecular basis of the mechanical properties of the silk fibroin heavy chain [7,8]. different silks from seven silk glands to achieve biological functions such as stopping falls, catching prey, building webs, filling holes, and making eggshells/sacs [9,10]. of studies analyzing spider silks have focused on the major ampullate dragline silks due to their high tensile strength and extensibility. silk fiber predominantly contains two types of conserved spidroins: ampullate dragline silk protein 1 (MaSp1) and major ampullate dragline silk protein 2 (MaSp2) [11,12]. 90% of the MaSp1 protein chain is a tandem repeat sequence consisting of four typical repeats of type 1, type 2, type 3, and type 4, which are formed by GGX and poly (A) motifs. The MaSp2 protein has a structure similar to that of the MaSp1 protein; it mainly consists of poly (A/GA) and GPGGX motifs [9,10,11,12]. the molecular structure of the FH chain, the main difference in the molecular structure of the spider dragline is the poly (A) domain with multiple repeats. lepidopteran insects that use silk to build and hang their nests. As a material to bear the weight of the insect itself and the nest, bagworm silk shows a much higher strength and modulus than silkworm silk [13]. to having a repeated motif similar to that of the silkworm fibroin heavy chain molecule (GA)NGX, the primary structure of bagworm fibroin also has the longest known poly (A) motif (22 residues) of any natural silk protein [14]. poly (A) structure aggregates the adjacent poly (A) helix together under hydrophobic interactions and self-assembles into a hexagonal arrangement, forming an ordered meridional periodic structure with the polyglycine motif [14]. structure induced by the long poly (A) could be the structural basis for the excellent mechanical properties of bagworm silk. molecular weight and structural similarity of the FH chain with MaSp and the large-scale production of silk make silkworm an ideal bioreactor for spider silk protein. years, through the piggyBac transposon system, several small spider silk genes were randomly integrated into the silkworm genome and exhibited mechanical properties increase in the fibers [7,15,16]. -like effector nucleases (TALENs)/clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats associated protein-9 nuclease (Cas9)-initiated homology-directed repair (HDR) have been established in B. mori to express recombinant spider silk protein, the extensibility and strength of the resulting silk fibers demonstrated significant improvements [3,6]. exhibit a promising means by which to produce spider silk protein. , people generally focus on introducing larger foreign gene fragments or improving the expression level of exogenous protein to further improve the performance of transgenic silk. However, technological bottlenecks will put a drag on the progress of these studies. Therefore, in order to meet the urgent commercial demand for high-performance silk materials, more research direction needs to be found. structural analysis of these natural fibers, the existence of a poly (A) structure may play a key role in the excellent mechanical properties of spider dragline silk and bagworm silk. investigates if the long poly (A) motif in the fibroin molecules is, in fact, an important factor in determining the strength of silk fibers. the molecular structure of foreign proteins that could improve the mechanical properties of silk fiber, the type 3 repetitive sequence of the MaSp1 gene of was used as the basic structural unit, and several transgenic plasmids containing the fusion protein that consists of the FL light chain, type 3 repeats with different multiples and the poly (A) motif with different lengths were constructed. of silk protein-based bionic spider silks were obtained by piggyBac-mediated microinjection. show that bionic spider silk with a longer poly (A) motif has a higher mechanical strength. proves that poly (A) plays an important role in the stress properties of silk. will provide a new idea for research on the use of silkworms to express spider silk. motifs of the MaSp1 protein from the black widow spider exhibit extreme sequence modularity [12]. can be divided into four highly conserved repetitive units known as type 1, type 2, type 3, and type 4 (Figure 1A). is composed of a glycine-rich region followed by a poly (A) motif. the type 3 module with a shorter overall length and a higher proportion of poly (A) as the basic unit and designed three transgenic vectors containing a 4 kb FL promoter to initiate exogenous gene expression (Figure 1B(b–d)). , a vector containing an 8-fold type 3 gene and a 1 kb FL promoter was constructed (Figure 1B(a)). properties of silk are mainly contributed to the FH chain, but its high molecular weight (350 kDa) makes it unsuitable to be constructed as a fusion protein. to use the self-assembly behavior of silk fibroin to target foreign proteins into silk molecules, we fused the recombinant spider silk fibroin with the silk FL chain. proteins of the FL chain-8-fold type 3, FL chain-8-fold type 3-poly (A), and FL chain-32-fold type 3-poly (A) (Figure 1B(b–d)) had predicted MWs of 44.92 kDa, 50.03 kDa, and 112.36 kDa, respectively. sequence of the multiple type 3 module was designed according to the codon preference of the FL chain. A red fluorescence protein gene (DsRed) activated by the IE1 promoter on the vector was used as the screening marker (Figure 1B). study, we constructed vectors that contained a 4 kb FL promoter and a recombinant protein fused to the FL chain with the 8-fold natural Masp1 type 3 repeat, or the FL chain-8-fold type 3-poly (A), or the FL chain-32-fold type 3-poly (A). transgenic silkworms and detected the target protein within the cocoon shells of the G2 generation transgenic silkworm strains to verify that the foreign gene had been successfully integrated into the silkworm genome and thus successfully inherited and expressed. the transgenic silkworms using the 1 kb FL chain promoter, the results showed that the expression levels of the foreign proteins within the transgenic silkworms 8MT2 and 8MTA increased by 2.04- and 2.28-fold, respectively. transgenic silkworm 32MTA strain, which has an exogenous protein with a high molecular weight, reached an expression level 43% higher than the 8MT1, indicating that using long sequence promoters, such as the 4 kb promoter, is an effective method for improving the expression level of foreign proteins. predictors were used in analyzing the foreign proteins introduced in this study, and the results showed that the type 3 repeat sequence and poly (A) motif of the fusion proteins were amorphous regions that could not form a stable secondary structure. consistent with the conclusion of al. [25] that the poly (A) region forms an amorphous polymer at room temperature and with the result of al. [26] that the proteins stored in the spider silk gland were arranged in a random coil based on analysis with high-resolution magic angle spinning NMR spectroscopy. However, FTIR analysis showed that the β-sheet contents of the 8MTA and 32MTA strains are significantly higher than that of wild-type silkworm silk, and the β-sheet content in silk is directly proportional to the poly (A) content of the foreign protein. Therefore, we speculate that poly (A) repeats ultimately form β-sheet crystals within transgenic silk. on the molecular structure of natural silk containing long poly (A) repeats in the primary structure, such as spider silk, , and bagworm silk, also suggest that poly (A) forms β-sheet crystals in silk fiber [14,27]. module of foreign proteins in transgenic silkworms exists in an amorphous state within the silk gland and forms β-sheet structures in silk. the possible explanations for this is that the conformation of the silk protein changes in the process of silk-spinning due to dehydration, physical extrusion, shearing and the change in pH (from alkaline to acidic) [28,29,30,31,32]. is similar to the conversion of poly (A) to β-sheets in natural spider silk [14,33]. indicates that the fusion protein can complete a structural transformation similar to the natural spider silk molecules in the spinning process of the silkworm and demonstrates that in order to form high-strength silk fiber, the proteins must undergo a spinning process similar to that of the silkworm and spider. need to consider other reasons for the difference between the results of PONDR and FTIR. state of poly (A) changed sharply with different lengths and temperatures. -physiological temperature, A19 (19 alanine peptides) slowly grew into loose clusters, while A25 (25 alanine peptides) rapidly assembled into small stable oligomers. temperatures, A19 assembled into fibrils, but A25 precipitated as dense, micrometer-sized particles [25]. transition characteristic of polyalanine peptide is difficult to predict accurately and may have an important impact on the properties and molecular structure of transgenic silk. Furthermore, fibroin easily forms an internal hydrophobic, externally hydrophilic micelle structure [24]. of the micelles is negatively charged, which can prevent premature crystallization of silk in vivo. FL chain fusion protein may affect the formation of such micelles, resulting in premature crystallization of poly (A). generally believed that β-sheet crystals contribute to the strength of the spider dragline silk. (A) motif of the MaSp1 protein forms a β-sheet configuration, and the A residues are alternately distributed on both sides of the conformational skeleton. interactions caused by this conformation closely links the poly (A) chains together, thus making the spider silk fibers have outstanding tensile strength [9,10,11,12]. showed that the content of β-sheets in the transgenic silk of the 8MTA strain was significantly higher than that of the wild-type, and the mechanical properties, such as the breaking strength and Young’s modulus, improved more in the 8MTA strain than in the 8MT1 strain, suggesting that the improvement in the mechanical properties of 8MTA silk is the result of increased β-sheet content. The 8MT1 and 8MT2 showed a slight improvement in extensibility, while the 8MTA showed similar extensibility to the wild-type (Figure S3). tend to exhibit a balance between stiffness and extensibility, such as increasing stiffness at the expense of extensibility or vice versa [34]. 8MT1, 8MTA has higher stiffness (Young’s modulus), which may reduce its extensibility. improvement of mechanical properties in the 32MTA strain compared to the 8MTA strain, including strength, Young’s modulus, extensibility, and toughness (Table 1 and Figure S3), indicate that even with the same molecular structure, larger protein molecules will have better mechanical properties. the research results, we can further clarify that, regardless of the molecular structure, the longer the molecule is, the better the mechanical properties are of the silk. explains why natural silk with excellent properties, such as strength and toughness, obtained by natural selection has very long molecular chains. –strain curves of 8MTA and 32MTA exist in the plateau region, which may cope with the structural transformation from α-helix to β-sheet (Figure S3) [35,36,37]. change is caused by the introduction of an additional poly (A) structure, it will be another interesting discovery. try to clarify this phenomenon in the following work. have found that variability in alanine within a species of spider’s silk will not necessarily lead to protein structural changes or mechanical property variation. Moreover, alanine-containing structures can be reconfigured on the fly under subtle changes in spinning conditions [29,31]. in this study is that we expect to introduce additional poly (A) motif into silk rather than increasing the amount of alanine. and functions of protein are based on its stereostructure, which depends on the arrangement of amino acids. research, we introduce the polyalanine motif, which will determine the structure of the corresponding protein. Therefore, we think that the observed changes in the properties and structure of the silk fibers are related to the increase of poly (A). However, we are still not clear about the interaction mechanism between poly (A) and other motifs or the mechanism of rheological changes caused by polyalanine. on the spinning process and silk structure of transgenic silkworm will provide more information on the molecular mechanism of strength provided by poly (A). silk mechanical properties are related to the whole spinning process, including the pH value in the silk gland, the shear stress of silk fibroin flowing in the silk gland, the dehydration process of silk fibroin with the help of microvilli, the friction between silk and valve, etc. [29,31,32,38,39,40,41,42]. considered these factors, so we ensured all experimental silkworm strains to be raised at the same time and strictly controlled the same feeding environment, food source and spinning environment. Thus, the influence of the environment on the properties of different varieties of silk is eliminated. , we think the experimental data are scientific. confirmed the important role of the long poly (A) motif in enhancing the strength and modulus of silk fibers, which provided a new idea and direction for research on the use of silkworms to express spider silk and thus improve the performance of silk. structure of MaSps comprises three primary regions: the globularly folded N-terminal and C-terminal domains, which are flanking the repetitive core region (Figure 1). core region is believed to be the main contributor to the fiber mechanical properties, and in MaSps, this region is generally made up of poly- that are alternated with Gly-rich regions . polymerized form, in the fiber, the poly- are predominantly arranged in nano-sized β-sheet crystals structures that contribute to the tensile strength of the silk fiber . -Ala β-sheet crystals are embedded in an amorphous matrix formed by the Gly-rich repeats, which is related to the extensibility of the fiber . referred to as amorphous, the Gly-rich repeats also form specific conformations like 31-helices, β-turns and β-spirals . ampullate silk fibers from different spider species display large variability in mechanical properties. the source of this large variability, al. . undertook the significant challenge of sequencing the transcriptome of 1098 species and simultaneously determining the mechanical properties of major ampullate silks from 446 of these species. showed that there is a large interspecies difference in terms of mechanical properties. , the tensile strength of the major ampullate silks varies between 0.17 and 3.3 GPa . However, strong correlations between the amino acid sequence motifs in the repeat regions of the MaSps and the fiber mechanical properties could not be found (c.f. section 2.1). spider silks are multi-functional, with eight main types of silks produced by the corresponding glands, each serving various purposes: (1) form scaffolds that provide structural support for webs; (2) are core fibers of capture spirals; (3) silks stabilize and reinforce the overall web structures; (4) provide sticky aqueous coating for capture spiral; (5) are used as cement for attachments and joints; (6) serve the soft inner silks of egg sacs and prey wrapping; (7) are designed for constructing egg sacs; (8) protect egg sacs by forming an outer coating26,27. silk properties are governed by the structure of its main protein building blocks, known as spidroins. of silk is primarily composed of a specific spidroin: (1) MaSp (major ampullate spidroins), (2) Flag (flagelliform spidroin), (3) MiSp (minor ampullate spidroins), (4) AgSp (aggregate spidroin), (5) PySp (pyriform spidroin), (6) AcSp (aciniform spidroin), (7) CySp (cylindrical spidroin), and (8) Tub (tubuliform spidroin). and evolution of spidroin sequences and their relationship to silk properties has been explored, as have the terminal domains, repetitive motifs and regions, and modifications and paralogs . Furthermore, specific functions of different MaSp types have been proposed, with MaSp1 contributing to silk strength, MaSp2 enhancing elasticity and supercontraction due to the ratio of amorphous to 𝛽-sheet regions, and MaSp3 demonstrating exceptional toughness. Nevertheless, due to the high diversity and complexity of spider silk and spidroins, the sequence-property relationships of spider silks have not yet been fully understood. spidroins are large proteins with an extension of 250-350 kDa, with an average of 3500 amino acids. a polymeric organization, mostly based on highly homogenized tandem repeats. 100 tandem copies of 30 to 40 amino acids which repeat sequence and they represent more than 90% of the protein sequence. glycine residues are the most abundant amino acids in these proteins. in blocks of six to fourteen units that form β-sheets. blocks can stack to create crystalline structures in the fiber, linking different protein molecules together. present in different motifs, such as GGX and GPGXX (where X = A, L, Q, or Y), that also have specific secondary structures (310-helix and β-spiral, respectively). Glycine-rich regions are more amorphous and contribute to extensibility and flexibility. the differences observed between spidroin 1 and spidroin 2 (the most important major ampullate spidroins) are the proline content, which is very low in the first one but significant in the second one, and the motifs. Motif (GGX)n is characteristic in spidroin 1, while GPG and QQ are typical in spidroin 2.